# Help on formatting text

Text on this wiki is written in a form very close to how you might write
text for an email message.

Leave blank lines between paragraphs.

You can \**emphasise*\* or \*\***strongly emphasise**\*\* text by placing it
in single or double asterisks.

To create a list, start each line with an asterisk:

* "* this is my list"
* "* another item"

To make a numbered list, start each line with a number (any number will
do) followed by a period:

1. "1. first line"
2. "2. second line"
2. "2. third line"

To create a header, start a line with one or more `#` characters followed
by a space and the header text. The number of `#` characters controls the
size of the header:

# # h1
## ## h2
### ### h3
#### #### h4

To create a horizontal rule, just write three or more dashes on their own
line:

----

To quote someone, prefix the quote with ">":

> To be or not to be,
> that is the question.

To write a code block, indent each line with a tab or 8 spaces:

	10 PRINT "Hello, world!"
	20 GOTO 10

To link to another page on the wiki, place the page's name inside double
square brackets, so you would use `\[[WikiLink]]` to link to [[WikiLink]].

To link to any other web page, or to an email address, you can just put the url in angle brackets: <<http://ikiwiki.kitenet.net>>, or you can use the form
\[link text\]\(url\)

----

Advanced users can use [[PreProcessorDirective]]s to do additional cool
stuff.

Also, if the smiley plugin is enabled in your wiki, you can insert
[[smileys]] and some other useful symbols.

----

This style of text formatting is called [[MarkDown]].
