I think that I have logged in using openid! But I think the login page
could use some adjustemnts.

Perhaps the openid stuff should be seperate, unless I was supposed to login
as well. Also have I just created an account on this wiki as well?

> The idea is that you fill in one or the other but not both. If it's
> switched to only openid, it's much clearer, since the
> username/password/register stuff disappears from the form.
>
> If both login methods are enabled, it's limited to using one form for
> both though...
>
> By signing in with openid, you have created an account on the wiki; you
> can configure it to eg, subscribe your email address to changes to pages.
> --[[Joey]]

----

# How to ban an IP address?

There is a way to ban ikiwiki users, but how to ban an IP address?
For example if a bitchy anonymous is bombing our poll. I can use
only Apache/iptables rules for this? Maybe it's related to
[[ACL|todo/ACL]] request? --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

> Well, the polls are not something I would worry about much. I do plan to
> add_IP_range_banning, although I expect to wait until
> there's a demonstrated need. --[[Joey]]

>> Heh, do you really want a lot of spam of me? ;)

>> It was only an example of banning reason. Recently I've read about
>> problems of Wikipedia with the vandals from Qatar. They demolished
>> Qatar Wikipedia pages and the admins of Wikipedia had to ban all
>> IP addresses of that country (fortunately Qatar has only one ISP).
>> --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

----

## Error voting

> Error: /srv/web/ikiwiki.info/todo/Configurable_minimum_length_of_log_message_for_web_edits/index.html independently created, not overwriting with version from todo/Configurable_minimum_length_of_log_message_for_web_edits

[[users/jon]]

----

### Logging Out

If I've logged in by OpenID, how do I log out?  I don't see any logout
button anywhere on IkiWiki.  (is it because I hit "forever" for my OpenID authorization duration?)
> No, it's because it's on the preferences page!  That's somewhat non-obvious...

>> This is a problem with having a static wiki. If I just put "Logout" as
>> an action on every page, that will look weird if you're not logged in.
>> --[[Joey]]

Even if IkiWiki does let me log out, how do I *stay* logged out?  Let's say I'm using a kiosk.  What's to prevent someone else from hitting my OpenID service right after I've walked away?  My OpenID service will just auth the login again, won't it? --[[sabr]]   (behavior seems to vary...  does it depend on the OpenID service?  guess I have some docs to read.)

> If you're at a kiosk, you'll need to log out of your openid provider too.
> Or use a provider that doesn't use cookies to keep you logged in. (Or
> don't check the box that makes your provider set a cookie when you log in.)
> 
> AFAIK openid doesn't have single signoff capabilities yet. --[[Joey]]

I'm having a problem using my preferred openid. I have
http://thewordnerd.info configured as a delegate to
thewordnerd.myopenid.com. It works fine on Lighthouse, Slicehost and
everywhere else I've used it. Here, though, if I use the delegate I'm sent
to my openid identity URL on myopenid.com. If I use the identity URL
directly, I get the verification page.

Is my delegation broken in some way that works for all these other apps but
which fails here? Or is something broken in Ikiwiki's implementation?

> I guess this is the same issue filed by you at
> [[bugs/OpenID_delegation_fails_on_my_server]] --[[Joey]]

Yes. I'd only recently set up my server as a delegate under wordpress, so still thought that perhaps the issue was on my end. But I'd since used my delegate successfully elsewhere, so I filed it as a bug against ikiwiki.
