[NearlyFreeSpeech.net](http://NearlyFreeSpeech.net) is a shared hosting
provider with very cheap pay as you go pricing. Here's how to install ikiwiki
there if you don't have a dedicated server.

Note that you can also follow these instructions, get your wiki set up on
NearlyFreeSpeech, and then use the [[plugins/Amazon_S3]] plugin to inject
the static web pages into Amazon S3. Then NearlyFreeSpeech will handle the
CGI, and S3 will handle the web serving. This might be a more cost effective,
scalable, or robust solution than using NearlyFreeSpeech alone.

## Register for an account and set up a site

After you [get an account](https://www.nearlyfreespeech.net/about/start.php),
create a site using their web interface. 

Mine is named `ikiwiki-test` and I used their DNS instead of getting my
own, resulting in <http://ikiwiki-test.nfshost.com/>

They gave me 2 cents free funding for signing up, which is enough to pay
for 10 megabytes of bandwidth, or about a thousand typical page views, at
their current rates. Plenty to decide if this is right for you. If it is,
$5 might be a good starting amount of money to put in your account.

## ssh in and configure the environment

ssh into their server using the ssh hostname and username displayed on
the site's information page. For me this was:

	ssh joeyh_ikiwiki-test@ssh.phx.nearlyfreespeech.net

Now set up .profile to run programs from ~/bin.

	cd $HOME
	echo "PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin" > .profile
	. .profile

## Download an unpack ikiwiki

Use `wget` to [[download]] the ikiwiki tarball. Then unpack it:

	tar zxvf ikiwiki*.tar.gz

## Install perl modules

As an optional step, you can use CPAN to install the perl modules ikiwiki
uses into your home directory. This should not be necessary, mostly,
because the system has most modules installed already.

So, you might want to skip this step and come back to it later if ikiwiki
doesn't work.

	PERL5LIB=`pwd`/ikiwiki:`pwd`/ikiwiki/cpan:`pwd`/lib/perl5 PERL_MM_USE_DEFAULT=1 perl -MCPAN -e 'CPAN::Shell->install("Bundle::IkiWiki")'
	
	PERL5LIB=`pwd`/ikiwiki:`pwd`/ikiwiki/cpan:`pwd`/lib/perl5 PERL_MM_USE_DEFAULT=1 perl -MCPAN -e 'CPAN::Shell->force(install => "Bundle::IkiWiki::Extras")'

This will take a while. As long as the first command succeeds, ikiwiki will be
usable. The second command adds extra modules that some plugins use, so it's
ok if installation of some of them fail.

## Build and install ikiwiki

	cd ikiwiki
	export MAKE=gmake
	perl Makefile.PL INSTALL_BASE=$HOME PREFIX=
	$MAKE
	$MAKE install

## Set up a wiki in the usual way

With ikiwiki installed, you can follow the regular [[setup]] tutorial for
settng up your wiki. Make sure to set `destdir` to `/home/htdocs/` so that
the wiki is published on the web site. I recommend using git for revision
control; you can then clone your wiki's git repository as an offsite backup.

Here is an example of how I set up a wiki:

	mkdir ~/wiki
	cd ~/wiki
	cp -r ~/ikiwiki/doc/examples/blog/* .
	ikiwiki -dumpsetup ikiwiki.setup
	nano ikiwiki.setup
	# Set destdir to /home/htdocs
	# Set srcdir to /home/private/wiki
	# Set url to http://yoursite.nfshost.com/
	# Set cgiurl to http://yoursite.nfshost.com/ikiwiki.cgi
	# Uncomment the `rcs => "git"` line.
	# Set the cgi_wrapper path to /home/htdocs/ikiwiki.cgi
	# Set the git_wrapper path to /home/private/wiki.git/hooks/post-update
	# Configure the rest to your liking and save the file.
	ikiwiki-makerepo git . ../wiki.git
	ikiwiki -setup ikiwiki.setup

## Clean up

Finally, you can save a _lot_ of disk space by cleaning up the ikiwiki
tarball and .cpan directory and a few other peices of cruft. Since you'll be
charged one cent per month per megabyte, this is a quick way to save several
dollars.

rm -rf ~/ikiwiki*.tar.gz ~/.cpan ~/ikiwiki ~/man ~/lib/perl5/5.8.8

That should cut things down to less than 2 megabytes. If you want to save
even more space, delete unused perl modules from ~/lib/perl5

## Enjoy!

Have fun and do good things. --[[Joey]]
