Version 3.0 of ikiwiki makes some significant changes, which
you will need to deal with when upgrading from ikiwiki 2.x.

[[!toc ]]

## setup file format change

The layout of the setup file changed in a significant way in version 2.60
of ikiwiki. If you have not changed yours to the new format, now would be a
good time to do so. Some new features, like the [[plugins/websetup]]
interface, need the new format setup file.
  
You can convert old setup files into the new format by running
`ikiwiki-transition setupformat your.setup`

## moving settings from Preferences page

The admin preferences page used to have settings for allowed attachments,
locked pages, and banned users. These three settings have moved to the
setup file, and will no longer appear on the admin preferences page once
your wiki is upgraded to 3.0.

You can move these preferences into the setup file by running
`ikiwiki-transition moveprefs your.setup; ikiwiki -setup your.setup -refresh -wrappers`

(Make sure you have converted the setup file to the new format first.)

## prefix directives

In 3.0, the syntax ikiwiki uses for [[directives|ikiwiki/directive]] has
changed, requiring that the directive start with a bang: 

	\[[!directive ...]]

If you would like to keep the old syntax, it is still supported, add the
following to your setup file:
	
	prefix_directives => 0,

To convert to the new syntax, make sure that your setup file does *not*
contain the above, then run `ikiwiki-transition prefix_directives your.setup`

(And then commit the changes it makes to pages in your srcdir.)

## GlobLists

In 3.0, the old "GlobList" syntax for [[PageSpecs|ikiwiki/PageSpec]] is no
longer supported. A GlobList contains multiple term, but does not separate
them with "and" or "or":

	sandbox !*/Discussion

To convert this to a modern PageSpec, simply add "and" or "or" as
appropriate between terms:
	
	sandbox and !*/Discussion

GlobLists have been deprecated for more than two years. If your wiki dates
to the ikiwiki 1.0 era, you should check it for any that might have lurked
unnoticed in it since back then. Ikiwiki version 2.72 will print warnings
about any GlobLists it sees.

## aggregateinternal

If your wiki uses the [[aggregate|plugins/aggregate]] plugin, it will start
to aggregate feeds to special "internal" pages.

If you don't want this change, you can add the following to your setup
file:

	aggregateinternal => 0,

Otherwise, follow this procedure to upgrade a wiki using the aggregate plugin:

1. Update all [[PageSpecs|ikiwiki/PageSpec]] that refer to the aggregated
   pages -- such as those in inlines. Put "internal()" around globs
   in those PageSpecs. For example, if the PageSpec was `foo/*`, it should
   be changed to `internal(foo/*)`. This has to be done because internal
   pages are not matched by regular globs.
2. Use [[ikiwiki-transition]] to rename all existing aggregated `.html`
   files in the srcdir. The command to run is
   `ikiwiki-transition aggregateinternal your.setup`,
3. Refresh the wiki. (`ikiwiki -setup your.setup -refresh`)

## embed / googlecalendar

The googlecalendar plugin has been deprecated for a long time, and is
removed in 3.0.

The embed plugin is also now deprecated, though not yet removed.

If you use either plugin to embed content from google, youtube, etc,
into your wiki, you should instead configure the [[plugins/htmlscrubber]]
to skip sanitising some pages, via the `htmlscrubber_skip` setting.
See [[embedding_content]] for examples.
