[[!template id=plugin name=copyright author="[[tschwinge]]"]]
[[!template id=plugin name=license author="[[tschwinge]]"]]

[[!meta title="default content for *copyright* and *license*"]]

Someone was just asking for it and I had written these two plugins already some months ago,
so I'm now publishing them here.

<http://www.schwinge.homeip.net/~thomas/tmp/copyright.pm>
<http://www.schwinge.homeip.net/~thomas/tmp/license.pm>

--[[tschwinge]]

I was asking about this in IRC the other day, but someone pointed me at the
[[Varioki|todo/varioki_--_add_template_variables___40__with_closures_for_values__41___in_ikiwiki.setup]]
plugin. It seems to me that it would be a better idea to have a way of defining
template variables in general, rather than having to add a new plugin for every
template variable somebody wants to use.

--[[bma]]

Copyright and license values are not "template values", they are values
tracked by the [[meta]] plugin, and that various code compares and uses to fill
out the templates. Something like varioki cannot do that. --[[Joey]]

Somewhat more detailed usage documentation would be appreciated. I tried to setup
those plugins with a current ikiwiki release, i.e. 2.61, but they appeared to do
nothing, really. Also, those example pages don't seem to use those plugins, even;
they set "copyright" and "license" properties using ordinary [[meta]] tags. Maybe
I'm missing something terribly obvious? --Peter
> Only obvious if you read the source :-). You need to put a file named "copyright.html"
>(respectively "license.html") in your wiki. Everything underneath that (in the wikilink sense) will use that
>content for the license or copyright. Saves putting \[[meta license="foo"]] in every page [[DavidBremner]]
