[[!template id=plugin name=syntax author="[[VictorMoral]]"]]
[[!tag type/chrome type/slow]]

The `syntax` plugin adds support to ikiwiki for syntax highlighting through the *vim* editor and its perl interface [[!cpan Text::VimColor]].  It depends on a functional vim installation.

The plugin inserts a fragment of HTML with special marks from a file or a string text. It accepts the following parameters:

* **type** (optional): this is the file type for vim syntax highlighthing. It can be omitted if the param *file* exists.
* **file**: Path to the source file. It must exist on every rebuild of the wiki.
* **text**: Text string with the source.
* **description** (optional): little description about the content.
* **linenumbers** (optional): enable the line numering of the source page. A value greater than zero is the first line number.

The params *file* and *text* are mutually exclusive.

In the case of file parameter, `syntax` will build a html link for direct download.

Example:

       \[[!syntax type="perl" text="""  
       #!/usr/bin/perl

       my $a = "World";
       print "Hello, ${a}\n";
       """]]

or 

       \[[!syntax file="/examples/hello.pl" description="My first perl program"]]

This plugin create the following CSS styles:

* syntax
* synComment
* synConstant
* syncIdentifier
* synPreProc
* synType
* synSpecial
* synUnderlined
* synError
* synTodo
* synTitle

It can be downloaded from [here](http://taquiones.net/files/misc/) or through my personal debian repository at <http://taquiones.net/files/debian/>. There is a page with examples: <http://taquiones.net/software/syntax-examples.html>

Any help, comments or critics are welcome at <victor@taquiones.net>.

## version 0.9

- Add a force_subpage parameter for link build
- Fix a bug in syntax page link
- Documented a bug with markdown indented text
- Documented the syntax directive

## version 0.7

- Version change to GPL
- Add *linenumbers* parameter
- The *file* parameter should be point to a ikiwiki source page. 
- The *description* parameter will be converted on a URL if the *file* parameter exist.

I need help for debugging this module. Thanks in advance.
