This plugin allows build html tables from data in csv (comma-separated values) or dsv (delimiter-separated values) formats.

It need the perl module [[cpan Text::CSV]] for the csv data. 

## usage

In any source page include the following:

    The next table show the results:

    \[[table class="myclass" format=dsv data="""
    Custom|Amount|
    Fulanito|134,34|
    Menganito|234,56|
    """]]

    This is my last acquisition:

    [[table class="book_record" format=csv file="data/books/record1"]]

    And the record1 page should be similar to:

    "Title","Perl Best Practices"
    "Author","Damian Conway"
    "Publisher","O’Reilly"

The parameters are:

- _data_: Contains the values for the table
- _file_: Wiki page whom contains the data.
- _delimiter_ (optional): Define the character used for separated the fields. By default is the vertical barr "|" in DSV format and the comma "," for the CSV format.
- _class_ (optional):  CSS class for the table html element
- _caption_ (optional):   Text string with the table caption.
- _no\_header_: This switch disable the generation of table header elements. By default this switch is enabled, and the header cells come from the firts data line.

Obviously, the _data_ and _file_ parameters are mutually exclusive. 

## Links

- Information about the formats in Wikipedia:
    - [[wikipedia CSV]]
    - [[wikipedia DSV]]

- Download of the tar file from <http://taquiones.net/files/misc/>
- Debian package in <http://taquiones.net/files/debian/>



