[[meta title="table (third-party plugin)"]]

This plugin supplies a `table` [[PreprocessorDirective]] to build html tables from data in CSV (comma-separated values) or DSV (delimiter-separated values) format.

It needs the perl module [[cpan Text::CSV]] for the CSV data.

## Usage

In any source page include the following:

    The next table shows the results:

    \[[table class="myclass" format=dsv data="""
    Custom|Amount|
    Fulanito|134,34|
    Menganito|234,56|
    """]]

    This is my last acquisition:

    [[table class="book_record" format=csv file="data/books/record1"]]

    And the record1 page should be similar to:

    "Title","Perl Best Practices"
    "Author","Damian Conway"
    "Publisher","O’Reilly"

The parameters are:

- _data_: Values for the table
- _file_: Wiki page containing the data.
- _format_ (optional): format name of the data. By default is `auto` and the options are `csv` or `dsv`.
- _delimiter_ (optional): The character used to separate fields. By default, DSV format uses a pipe (`|`), and CSV uses a comma (`,`).
- _class_ (optional): CSS class for the table html element
- _caption_ (optional): Text string for the table caption.
- _no\_header_: This switch disables the generation of table header (`<th>`) elements. By default, the `table` directive uses the first data line as column headers.

The _data_ and _file_ parameters are mutually exclusive.

Note: the automatic format detection mechanism is still very rudimentary.

## Changelog

### version 0.5

* Remove a call to an inexistent [[cpan Text::CSV]] method.
* Added the sep_char parameter.
* Parse CSV data in binary mode.
* Added a format detection mechanism.
* Default format now is 'auto'.

## Links

- Information about the formats in Wikipedia:
    - [[wikipedia CSV]]
    - [[wikipedia DSV]]

- Download the tar file from <http://taquiones.net/files/misc/>
- Debian package in <http://taquiones.net/files/debian/>
