I am using ikiwiki 2.6.1.

I can't figure out the locked pages.

As an admin in preferences, I put in my Locked Pages:

index and downloads

I don't want anyone to be able to edit the front page or my downloads page.

That didn't work. I am using a different web browser as a different non-ikiwiki-admin user.

So I changed it to

/index and /downloads

That stopped me from editing the front page. It didn't say it was locked just repeatedly gave me the ikiwiki login. (How can I get it to tell me it is locked instead?)

I also tried

/index and /downloads/index

But I could still edit my downloads page.

Can someone share some hints on how to lock these two pages?

My source pages for the lock are:

source/downloads.mdwn
source/index.mdwn

My webpages to lock are:

public\_html/downloads/index.html
public\_html/index.html

> So I tried again with using "or" instead of "and":
>
> index or downloads
>
> And that worked. I now get a message saying it is locked and cannot be edited.
> To me saying "lock both 'index and downloads'" made sense while now it reads like: "lock either 'index or downloads'". Maybe the [[PageSpec]] should define "and" and "or" (beyond the examples it has).
>
> Also why did my "/index and /downloads" prevent editing the index by repeatedly showing login webpage?
>
> -JeremyReed

>> I've clarified and/or in [[PageSpec]].
>> 
>> I can't reproduce "/index and /downloads" causing the login webpage to
>> be shown repeatedly. Sure you weren't having some independent issue with
>> logging in? --[[Joey]]

----

I have a page for a tag.  On that page I want to list every page on my wiki that has been so tagged.  Easy enough, right?

> \[[!inline pages="link(Categories/Ikiwiki_Plugins)" feeds=no archive=yes sort=title template=titlepage]]

> (I'm using tagbase => "Categories" because I'm converting from Mediawiki) 

This works beautifully in my sandbox: <http://iki.u32.net/sandbox>  But it is totally blank on the page where I actually do want output!  <http://iki.u32.net/Categories/Ikiwiki_Plugins>

How can I fix this?  --[[sabr]]

> I don't see why that wouldn't work. Can I download the source to your
> wiki from somewhere to investigate? --[[Joey]]

----

Should negation work with user(), with locked_pages in setup?  I
experimented with setting locked_pages => 'user(someuser)' and was able to
edit as a different user.  However, setting locked_pages =>
'!user(someuser)' doesn't seem to allow edits for only 'someuser' - it
locks out all users.

> Negation works with anything in any PageSpec. I tested the case you
> describe, and a negated pagespec worked for me; all users except the
> listed user (and except wiki admins of course) were locked out.
> --[[Joey]] 

>> It must be a local problem, then, cause I've tried it with two separate 
>> machines.  Both are running the most recent release of ikiwiki in 
>> pkgsrc - 2.66.  Perhaps an update to a newer version would solve the issue.

----

Is there a way to refer to all subpages of the current page, if  the name of the 
current page is not known (i.e. the pagespec is used in a template)? The ./ syntax
does not seem suitable for this, as

> \[[!map pages="./*"]]

also lists the current page and all its siblings.
