Hi Joey and many thanks for your work on ikiwiki, as usual you give us a very good soft...

I want to be able to edit my website from a navigator (with the CGI) and
from my favorite editor on my laptop. I have managed to use the subversion wrapper
so I have write a post-commit hook with : 

    cd /~/wikisrc/ 
    svn up
    /usr/bin/ikiwiki --setup ../ikiwiki.setup

at the end.

This configuration works for me, the svn wrapper doesn't seems to
do the svn up stuff so I wonder if I've missed something...

Regards.

> Well, you've created a post-commit script that runs ikiwiki in setup mode.
> That's not how it's generally done, instead you generally configure
> ikiwiki to generate a post-commit _binary_ that runs ikiwiki in update
> mode. That binary can be installed directly as the post-commit hook, or
> called from an existing post-commit hook script, and it will handle the
> necessary svn up, and will update the wiki much quicker than your --setup
> command above (which rebuilds the entire wiki and all wrappers each
> commit)!
>
> In this wiki's setup file, I configure ikiwiki to generate a post-commit
> wrapper binary like so:
> 
> 	wrappers => [
> 	{
> 		wrapper => "/srv/svn/ikiwiki/hooks/post-commit",
> 		wrappermode => "04755",
> 		notify => 1,
> 	}
>	],


Hello, I've setup ikiwiki with subversion. I can edit pages from web browser using CGI and, when I go to recentchanges, it shows that modification with "web" word. But, if I modify any .mdwn file, it gets updated in website but it doesn't show in recentchanges entry with "svn" word. If I run "svn ci -m changes", it shows in recentchanges correctly.

So, I think I miss something, because I don't think I must run "svn add" or "svn commit" anytime I modify or create a wiki file.

Thanks
