The `aggregate` directive is supplied by the [[!iki plugins/aggregate]] plugin.
This plugin requires extra setup, specifically, a cron job. See the
plugin's documentation for details.

This directive allows content from other feeds to be aggregated into the wiki.
Aggregate a feed as follows:

	\[[!aggregate name="example blog" dir="example"
	feedurl="http://example.com/index.rss"
	url="http://example.com/" updateinterval="15"]]

That example aggregates posts from the specified RSS feed, updating no
more frequently than once every 15 minutes (though possibly less
frequently, if the cron job runs less frequently than that), and puts a
page per post under the example/ directory in the wiki.

You can then use ikiwiki's [[ikiwiki/blog]] support to create a blog of one or
more aggregated feeds. For example:

	\[[!inline pages="internal(example/*)"]]

## usage

Here are descriptions of all the supported parameters to the `aggregate`
directive:

* `name` - A name for the feed. Each feed must have a unique name.
  Required.
* `url` - The url to the web page for the feed that's being aggregated.
  Required.
* `dir` - The directory in the wiki where pages should be saved. Optional,
  if not specified, the directory is based on the name of the feed.
* `feedurl` - The url to the feed. Optional, if it's not specified ikiwiki
  will look for feeds on the `url`. RSS and atom feeds are supported.
* `updateinterval` - How often to check for new posts, in minutes. Default
  is 15 minutes.
* `expireage` - Expire old items from this feed if they are older than
  a specified number of days. Default is to never expire on age.
* `expirecount` - Expire old items from this feed if there are more than
  the specified number total. Oldest items will be expired first. Default
  is to never expire on count.
* `tag` - A tag to tag each post from the feed with. A good tag to use is
  the name of the feed. Can be repeated multiple times. The [[tag]] plugin
  must be enabled for this to work.
* `template` - Template to use for creating the aggregated pages. Defaults to
  aggregatepost.

Note that even if you are using subversion or another revision control
system, pages created by aggregation will *not* be checked into revision
control.

[[!meta robots="noindex, follow"]]
