Would there be a way for this plugin to emit fewer blank lines (i.e. *none at all*)?

For example, having a look at [this page](http://www.bddebian.com/~wiki/Hurd/)'s sidebar.
This [sidebar](http://www.bddebian.com/~wiki/sidebar/)
([source code](http://www.bddebian.com/gitweb/?p=wiki;a=blob_plain;f=sidebar.mdwn))
is supposed to have *no* blank lines between...

* **Hurd** and *About*,
* *Todo* and **Mach**,
* **Mach** and **Mig**.

--[[tschwinge]]

> The blank lines in this example are coming from the newline after `then="`, and also from the newline before the close quote. If you remove those newlines, I think it should work. --[[Joey]]

>> No, that's unfortunately not it, see here:
>> [[!if test="enabled(trallala)" then="foot"]]
>> Continued.  But on the other
>> [[!if test="enabled(trallala)" then="foot" else="hand:"]]
>> Continued.  --[[tschwinge]]

>>> Seems ok, no? The only linebreaks I see in the source are the ones you
>>> put at the end of the lines. --[[Joey]]

>>>> Okay, that would explain the linebreak between 1 and 3.  But then, why are all linebreaks removed between 3 and 5?

>>>> 1 No, that's unfortunately not it, see here:
>>>> [[!if test="enabled(trallala)" then="foot"]]
>>>> 3 Continued.  But on the other
>>>> [[!if test="enabled(trallala)" then="foot" else="hand:"]]
>>>> 5 Continued.  --[[tschwinge]]

>>>>> The conditional after 1 evaluates to "", so there's a blank line
>>>>> there. The one after 3 evaluates to "hand:", so no blank line there.
>>>>> --[[Joey]]

I have a sidebar that contains
<pre>
  #### Archives

  \[[!calendar type="year" months_per_row="6"  pages="blog/* and !*/Discussion"]]
  \[[!calendar type="month" pages="blog/* and !*/Discussion"]]
  &lt;h4&gt;Indices&lt;/h4&gt
  \[[!map pages="archives/* and !*/Discussion"]]
</pre>
I am trying to make it so that the archives and index only show up if the destpage is either blog/* or / -- the top of the wiki. Unfortunately, I don't think I am getting the
conditional right -- I have a "]] left over at the end (looking at the rendered html). Ideally, I would like to be able to do todays calendar on the top level pagel and 
the annual calendar on archives/200[4567].mdwn, and monthly calendars for the proper month on archives/200[4567]/[0..12].mdwn. Do I have to create separate sidebars?
I do not use the usedir directive, so all my annual archive pages live in archives/, and all my monthly archive pages live in, say, archives/2007/ --ManojSrivastava

> Are you using triple quoting for the text in the conditional? --[[Joey]]
