[[template id=plugin name=amazon_s3 author="[[Joey]]"]]
[[tag type/special-purpose]]

This plugin allows ikiwiki to publish a wiki in the [Amazon Simple Storage
Service](http://aws.amazon.com/s3) (S3). As pages are rendered, ikiwiki
will upload them to Amazon S3. The entire wiki contents, aside from the
ikiwiki CGI, can then be served directly out of Amazon S3.

You'll need the [[cpan Net::Amazon::S3]] and [[cpan File::MimeInfo]] perl
modules and an Amazon S3 account to use this plugin.

## configuration

This plugin uses the following settings in the setup file:

* `amazon_s3_key_id` - Set to your public access key id.
* `amazon_s3_key_file` - Set to the name of a file where you have
  stored your secret access key. The content of this file *must*
  be kept secret.
* `amazon_s3_bucket` - The globally unique name of the bucket to use to
  store the wiki. This determines the URL to your wiki. For example, if you
  set it to "foo", then the url will be
  "http://foo.s3.amazonaws.com/wiki/".
* `amazon_s3_prefix` - A prefix to prepend to each page name.
  The default is "wiki/". Note that due to S3 limitations (lack of support
  for uploading a root key), it is not possible to set the prefix to an
  empty string.
* `amazon_s3_location` - Optionally, this can be set to control which
  datacenter to use. For example, set it to "EU" to for Europe.
* `amazon_s3_dupindex` - Normally, when `usedirs` is enabled,
  "foo/index.html" is stored in S3 as a key named "foo/", and all links
  between pages use that name. If you also needs links that include
  "index.html" in their names to work, you can enable this option. Then
  each index.html file will be stored in S3 *twice*, under both names. This
  will use more disk and bandwidth, and is not recommended unless you really
  need it for some reason.

Note that you should still set `destdir` in the setup file. The files that
are uploaded to Amazon S3 will still be written to the destdir, too.

Likewise, you will probably want to set the `url` in the setup file.
The url can use the `foo.s3.amazonaws.com` domain name, or another domain
name that is a CNAME for it.

The `hardlink` config file setting is not compatible with this plugin.

## data transfer notes

If you run 'ikiwiki -setup my.setup' to force a rebuild of your wiki, the
entire thing will be re-uploaded to Amazon S3. This will take time, and
cost you money, so it should be avoided as much as possible.

If you run 'ikiwiki -setup my.setup -refresh', ikiwiki will only upload the
modified pages that it refreshes. Faster and cheaper. Still, if you have
very large pages (for example, a page that inlines hundreds of other pages
.. or is just very large), the complete page contents will be re-uploaded
each time it's changed. Amazon S3 does not currently support partial/rsync
type uploads.

Copy and rename detection is not done, so if you copy or rename a large file,
it will be re-uploaded, rather than copied.

## deleting a bucket

You can use "ikiwiki -setup my.setup --delete-bucket" to delete anything
that's in the configured bucket, and remove the bucket.
