[[!template id=plugin name=calendar author="[[ManojSrivastava]]"]]
[[!tag type/chrome]]

This plugin displays a calendar, similar to the typical calendars shown on
some blogs.

# examples

	\[[calendar ]]

	\[[calendar type="month" pages="blog/* and !*/Discussion"]]

	\[[calendar type="year" year="2005" pages="blog/* and !*/Discussion"]]

This plugin is inspired by the calendar plugin for Blosxom, but
derives no code from it. This plugin is essentially a fancy front end
to archives of previous pages, usually used for blogs. It can produce
a calendar for a given month, or a list of months for a given year.

Since ikiwiki is a wiki compiler, to keep the calendar up-to-date,
wikis that include it need to be preiodically refreshes, typically by cron
at midnight. Example crontab:

	0 0 * * * ikiwiki -setup ~/ikiwiki.setup -refresh

The month format calendar simply links to any page posted on each
day of the month. The year format calendar links to archive pages, with
names like `archives/2007` (for all of 2007)  and `archives/2007/01`
(for January, 2007). For this to work, you'll need to create these archive
pages. They typically use [[inline]] to display or list pages created in
the given time frame.

## usage

* `type` - Used to specify the type of calendar wanted. Can be one of
  "month" or "year". The default is a month view calendar.
* `pages` - Specifies the [[ikiwiki/PageSpec]] of pages to link to from the
  month calendar. Defaults to "*".
* `archivebase` - Configures the base of the archives hierarchy. The
  default is "archives". Note that this default can also be overridden
  for the whole wiki by setting `archivebase` in ikiwiki's setup file.
* `year` - The year for which the calendar is requested. Defaults to the
  current year.
* `month` - The numeric month for which the calendar is requested, in the
  range 1..12. Used only for the month view calendar, and defaults to the
  current month.
* `week_start_day` - A number, in the range 0..6, which represents the day
  of the week that the month calendar starts with. 0 is Sunday, 1 is Monday,
  and so on. Defaults to 0, which is Sunday.
* `months_per_row` - In the annual calendar, number of months to place in
  each row. Defaults to 3.

## CSS

The output is liberally sprinkled with classes, for fine grained CSS
customization.

* `month-calendar` - The month calendar as a whole.
* `month-calendar-head` - The head of the month calendar (ie,"March").
* `month-calendar-day-head` - A column head in the month calendar (ie, a
  day-of-week abbreviation).
* `month-calendar-day-noday`, `month-calendar-day-link`, 
  `month-calendar-day-nolink`, `month-calendar-day-future`,
  `month-calendar-day-this-day` - The day squares on the month calendar,
  for days that are not in the month (before or after the month itself), that
  don't have links, that do have links, that are in the future, or are that
  are the current day, respectively.
* `Sunday`, `Monday`, `Tuesday`, ... - Each day square is also given a class
  matching its  (localised) day of week, this can be used to highlight
  weekends.
* `year-calendar` - The year calendar as a whole.
* `year-calendar-head` - The head of the year calendar (ie, "2007").
* `year-calendar-subhead` - For example, "Months".
* `year-calendar-month-link`, `year-calendar-month-nolink`,
  `year-calendar-month-future`, `year-calendar-this-month` - The month
  squares on the year calendar, for months with stories,
  without, in the future, and currently selected, respectively.
