[[template id=plugin name=inline core=1 author="[[Joey]]"]]

This is a [[PreProcessorDirective]] that allows including one wiki page
inside another. For example:

	\[[inline pages="blog/*"]]

The most common use of inlining is generating blogs and RSS or Atom feeds.
See [[blog]] for details.

## usage

Here are descriptions of all the supported parameters to the `inline`
directive:

* `pages` - A [[PageSpec]] of the pages to inline.
* `show` - Specify the maximum number of matching pages to inline.
  Default is 10, unless archiving, when the default is to show all.
  Set to 0 to show all matching pages.
* `feedshow` - Specify the maximum number of matching pages to include in
  the rss/atom feeds. The default is the same as the `show` value above,
  and it cannot be larger than that value, but can be set to a smaller
  value to avoid producing excessively large feed files.
* `skip` - Specify a number of pages to skip displaying. Can be useful
  to produce a feed that only shows archived pages.
* `rss` - controls generation of an rss feed. On by default if the wiki is
  configured to use rss feeds, set to "no" to disable.
* `atom` - controls generation of an atom feed. On by default if the wiki is
  configured to use atom feeds, set to "no" to disable.
* `feeds` - controls generation of all types of feeds. Set to "no" to
  disable generating any feeds.
* `rootpage` - Enables a form to post new pages to a [[blog]].
* `archive` - If set to "yes", only list page titles and some metadata, not
  full controls.
* `quick` - Build archives in quick mode, without reading page contents for
  metadata. By default, this also turns off generation of any feeds.
* `template` - Specifies the template to fill out to display each inlined
  page. By default the `inlinepage` [[template|templates]] is used, while
  the `archivepage` template is used for archives. Set this parameter to
  use some other, custom template, such as the `titlepage` template that
  only shows post titles. Note that you should still set `archive=yes` if
  your custom template does not include the page content.
* `raw` - Rather than the default behavior of creating a [[blog]],
  if raw is set to "yes", the page will be included raw, without additional
  markup around it, as if it were a literal part of the source of the 
  inlining page.
* `description` - Sets the description of the rss feed if one is generated.
  Defaults to the name of the wiki.
* `actions` - If set to "yes" add links to the bottom of the inlined pages 
  for editing and discussion (if they would be shown at the top of the page
  itself).
* `sort` - Controls how inlined pages are sorted. The default, "age" is to
  sort newest pages first. Setting it to "title" will sort pages by title.
* `reverse` - If set to "yes", causes the sort order to be reversed.
