[[template id=plugin name=meta author="[[Joey]]"]]
[[tag type/meta]]

This plugin allows inserting arbitrary metadata into the source of a page.
Enter the metadata as follows:

	\[[meta field="value"]]
	\[[meta field="value" param="value" param="value"]]

The first form sets a given field to a given value, while the second form
also specifies some additional sub-parameters.

The field values are treated as HTML entity-escaped text, so you can include
a quote in the text by writing `&quot;` and so on.

Supported fields:

* title

  Overrides the title of the page, which is generally the same as the
  page name.

  Note that if the title is overridden, a "title_overridden" variable will
  be set to a true value in the template; this can be used to format things
  differently in this case.

* license

  Specifies a license for the page, for example, "GPL". Can contain
  WikiLinks and arbitrary markup.

* copyright

  Specifies the copyright of the page, for example, "Copyright 2007 by
  Joey Hess". Can contain WikiLinks and arbitrary markup.

* author

  Specifies the author of a page.

* authorurl

  Specifies an url for the author of a page.

* permalink

  Specifies a permanent link to the page, if different than the page
  generated by ikiwiki.

* date

  Specifies the creation date of the page. The date can be entered in
  nearly any format, since it's parsed by [[cpan TimeDate]].

* stylesheet

  Adds a stylesheet to a page. The stylesheet is treated as a wiki link to
  a `.css` file in the wiki, so it cannot be used to add links to external
  stylesheets. Example:

	\[[meta stylesheet=somestyle rel="alternate stylesheet"
	title="somestyle"]]

* openid

  Adds html &lt;link&gt; tags to perform OpenID delegation to an external
  OpenID server. This lets you use an ikiwiki page as your OpenID. Example:

  	\\[[meta openid="http://joeyh.myopenid.com/"
	server="http://www.myopenid.com/server"]]

* link

  Specifies a link to another page. This can be used as a way to make the
  wiki treat one page as linking to another without displaying a user-visible
  [[ikiwiki/WikiLink]]:

       \[[meta link=otherpage]]

  It can also be used to insert a html &lt;link&gt; tag. For example:

       \[[meta link="http://joeyh.myopenid.com/" rel="openid.delegate"]]

  However, this latter syntax won't be allowed if the [[htmlscrubber]] is
  enabled, since it can be used to insert unsafe content.

* redir

  Causes the page to redirect to another page in the wiki.

  	\[[meta redir=otherpage]]

  Optionally, a delay (in seconds) can be specified. The default is to
  redirect without delay.

  It can also be used to redirect to an external url. For example:

  	\[[meta redir="http://example.com/"]]

  However, this latter syntax won't be allowed if the [[htmlscrubber]] is
  enabled, since it can be used to insert unsafe content.

  For both cases, an anchor to jump to inside the destination page may also be
  specified using the common `PAGE#ANCHOR` syntax.

If the field is not one of the above predefined fields, the metadata will be
written to the generated html page as a &lt;meta&gt; header. However, this
won't be allowed if the [[htmlscrubber]] is enabled, since it can be used to
insert unsafe content.
