[[!template id=plugin name=passwordauth core=1 author="[[Joey]]"]]
[[!tag type/auth]]

This plugin lets ikiwiki prompt for a user name and password when logging
into the wiki. It also handles registering users, resetting passwords, and
changing passwords in the prefs page.

It is enabled by default, but can be turned off if you want to only use
some other form of authentication, such as [[httpauth]] or [[openid]].

When the `account_creation_password` configuration option is enabled with
a password, this plugin prompts for the password when creating an
account as a simplistic anti-spam measure.
(Some wikis edited by a particular group use an account creation password
as an "ask an existing member to get an account" system.)

## password storage

Users' passwords are stored in the `.ikiwiki/userdb` file, which needs to
be kept safe to prevent exposure of passwords. If the
[[!cpan Authen::Passphrase]] perl module is installed, only hashes of the
passwords will be stored. This is strongly recommended.

The `password_cost` configuration option can be used to make the stored
password hashes be more difficult to brute force, at the expense of also
taking more time to check a password when a user logs into the wiki. The
default value is 8, max value is (currently) 31, and each step *doubles*
the time required.

So if you're worried about your password files leaking and being cracked,
you can increase the `password_cost` and make that harder. But a better
choice might be to not deal with user passwords at all, and instead use
[[openid]]!
