## How do you provide the per post discussion links in your own blog?

> That's configured by the "actions" parameter to the inline directive. See
> docs in [[plugins/inline]]. --[[Joey]]

And do you have any ideas/hints about implementing a "comments" feature.
What I'm after is something for users who don't quite understand the Wiki
style for discussions.  I would like to have a form for them to post a
comment and have the comment appended to the discussion Wiki-style.  Maybe
take it as far as implementing "replies" to other comments.

-- Marcelo

> See [[todo/discussion_page_as_blog]] for some of my own thoughts on this
> --[[Joey]]

---

## More dynamic `rootpage` parameter of inline plugin?

I prefer to use a current year, month and day to archive my blog posts, for example
`post/2007/11/12/foo-bar-baz` path is better for me then `post/foo-bar-baz`.
Unfortunately it seems that `rootpage` parameter of inline plugin is very static.
Is it a chance to make it more dynamic? Now I have to use `svn mkdir` command
to create appropriate subdirectories by hand.

I think that you could add builtin functions or variables, for example `current_year()`
or `$CURRENT_YEAR` to usage inside `rootpage` parameter. Something like for Manoj's
calendar plugin. Then my `rootpage` parameter could be like
`rootpage="post/current_year()/current_month()/current_day()"`. Another good hints
are welcomed ;)

What's your opinion, Joey? I hope it's also useful for another ikiwiki lovers :)

--[[Paweł|ptecza]]
