No matter what I do, ikiwiki gives me a `Can't locate loadable object for module Locale::gettext in @INC` although I've installed (and reinstalled) the Locale module, and no luck. If I look at the directories in the INC path, I can see the file. The wiki won't compile in spite of this, and I've tried everything I can think of.. -- [[tychoish]]

> Sounds like the `Locale::gettext` perl module is there, but your perl
> installation is broken so that the accompnying so file is not there, or
> doesn't work. On my system I have 
> `/usr/lib/perl5/Locale/gettext.pm` and
> `/usr/lib/perl5/auto/Locale/gettext.so` -- suspect your problem is with
> the second one.
> 
> If you can't fix it, this problem could probably be worked around by
> unsetting all environment variables when running ikiwiki (`LANG`,
> `LC_ALL`, `LC_MESSAGES`). Then it won't try to load `Locale::gettext` at
> all. --[[Joey]]

---

I am trying to install Ikiwiki version 2.1 from the source tarball.

It has all gone fairly smoothly until I try and run 'make'.

I.e. I have downloaded and unpacked ikiwiki_2.1.tar.gz and have run

    perl Makefile.PL

... which has run OK.


However when I then run 'make' I get:-

    LANG=C perl -I.  -T ikiwiki.out doc html --templatedir=templates \
                    --underlaydir=basewiki --nousedirs\
                    --wikiname="ikiwiki" --verbose \
                    --exclude=/discussion --no-discussion --userdir=users \
                    --plugin=goodstuff \
                    --plugin=haiku --plugin=polygen --plugin=fortune
    Failed to load plugin IkiWiki::Plugin::mdwn: IkiWiki version 2 required--this is only version 1.01 at IkiWiki/Plugin/mdwn.pm line 7.
    BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at IkiWiki/Plugin/mdwn.pm line 7.
    Compilation failed in require at (eval 4) line 2.
    BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at (eval 4) line 2.

    make: *** [extra_build] Error 1
 
How do I fix this?  There may be a bit of old ikiwiki left behind because
I did once have an older version installed but I thought I had removed all
traces of it.

> I'm quite sure that you still have some of it floating around, since
> ikiwiki seems to be loading an old IkiWiki.pm.
> 
> I don't understand though why it's not finding ./IkiWiki.pm first. The
> `-I` in the command line should make it look for files in the current
> directory first. --[[Joey]]

Well I have searched around and there really is nothing left that I can see.

I have removed *everything* found by 'find' and 'locate' that contains 'ikiwiki' except the tar file
and started from the beginning again and I see exactly the same error.

Is it that I maybe have a too old version of some of the Perl dependencies?  The only mdwn.pm files
that I have are the two I have just extracted from the new tar file.  There is *no* ./IkiWiki.pm file

> It's interesting that you say you have no ./IkiWiki.pm file, since one is
> included in the tarball. What happened to it, I wonder? 

so what/where is it loading to satisfy the ....... aaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhhhhh!!!!!!

I wasn't noticing the case of the filename, I'd missed the upper case W and guess what 'find' shows me:-

    /usr/local/lib/perl5/site_perl/5.8.8/IkiWiki.pm

Removing the above file has fixed my basic problem, now I'm getting lots of (non-fatal) errors
about "Can't locate Locale/gettext.pm", presumably that's a missing Perl module, I can probably
sort that out.


## Errors when running 'make test'

OK, I've now got it to compile and install and presumably it's basically working.  However there
are a few errors when I run 'make test'.  Several errors have disappeared by installing more Perl
stuff (specifically XML::SAX) 

> XML::SAX is a requirement of XML::Simple, which is a documented build
> requirement. (Only really needed if you'll be using subversion actually).

and one error disappeared when I did a 'make install', i.e. the 'make
test' has a test which requires IkiWiki to be installed first.

> Yes, that bug is already fixed in subversion for the next release
> --[[Joey]]

However I'm still getting the following error in 'make test':-

	t/pagename.................ok                                                
	t/pagespec_match...........ok 1/52Modification of a read-only value attempted at /home/chris/webdev/ikiwiki/blib/lib/IkiWiki.pm line 1023.
	# Looks like you planned 52 tests but only ran 23.
	# Looks like your test died just after 23.
	t/pagespec_match...........dubious                                           
	        Test returned status 255 (wstat 65280, 0xff00)
	DIED. FAILED tests 24-52
	        Failed 29/52 tests, 44.23% okay
	t/pagespec_merge...........ok                                                

> What version of perl are you using? It seems to have some problem with
> operator overloading.
> --[[Joey]]

home$ perl -v

This is perl, v5.8.8 built for i486-linux

## Installation in a non-root enviroment
I had a pretty hellacious time installing Ikiwiki (largely due to problems
in Perl) and documented them in [[tips/Dreamhost]].  I'd like to get feedback on the doc and also know if I should file a few bugs to make the installation process a little friendlier to non-root folks.  Thanks for the great app!


## Typing error?

[..] Mail::Sendmail, TimeDate, RPC::XML, [..]: should be DateTime? --[[vibrog]]

> No, TimeDate and DateTime are two different CPAN modules. Ikiwiki uses
> TimeDate. --[[Joey]]

ah, i still don't fully get it, though (the following is slightly shortened):

    $ perl -MCPAN -e shell
    cpan> install DateTime
    DateTime is up to date.
    cpan> install TimeDate
    Warning: Cannot install TimeDate, don't know what it is.
    Try the command
        i /TimeDate/
    to find objects with matching identifiers.

I'm trying to build IkiWiki on a fresh OpenSuse 10.3 box. I start out with

    $ perl -MCPAN -e 'install Text::Markdown URI HTML::Parser HTML::Template HTML::Scrubber'
    $ git clone git://git.ikiwiki.info/ ikiwiki && cd ikiwiki
    $ perl Makefile.PL && make

Are there other prerequisites?
I also installed all optional Perl modules, except TimeDate.

> TimeDate is also, confusingly, known as Date::Parse. Perhaps CPAN would
> do better with that name. --[[Joey]]

good. Date::Parse was already installed. --[[vibrog]]

`make` exits with `make: *** [extra_build] Aborted`, `make test` complains `cannot stat 'ikiwiki.man'` --[[vibrog]]

> If you show me the actual error message, and not just the last line make
> outputs, I might be able to help. --[[Joey]]

    ..
    rendering todo/calendar_--_archive_browsing_via_a_calendar_frontend.mdwn
    make: *** [extra_build] Segmentation fault

> So, perl on your system is segfaulting when running ikiwiki. What version
> of perl is this, and what version of what distribution? --[[Joey]]

    $ perl -V
    Summary of my perl5 (revision 5 version 8 subversion 8) configuration:
    osname=linux, osvers=2.6.22, archname=i586-linux-thread-multi
    uname='linux ravel 2.6.22 #1 smp 20070921 22:29:00 utc i686 i686 i386 gnulinux '
    config_args='-ds -e -Dprefix=/usr -Dvendorprefix=/usr -Dinstallusrbinperl -Dusethreads -Di_db -Di_dbm -Di_ndbm -Di_gdbm -Duseshrplib=true -Doptimize=-O2 -march=i586 -mtune=i686 -fmessage-length=0 -Wall -D_FORTIFY_SOURCE=2 -fstack-protector -g -Wall -pipe'
    hint=recommended, useposix=true, d_sigaction=define
    usethreads=define use5005threads=undef useithreads=define usemultiplicity=define
    useperlio=define d_sfio=undef uselargefiles=define usesocks=undef
    use64bitint=undef use64bitall=undef uselongdouble=undef
    usemymalloc=n, bincompat5005=undef

Not sure how to provide proper version information for you.--[[vibrog]]

---

I've tried a couple of times and my cpan has never recognised Bundle::IkiWiki. Is that section of the page still accurate? -- [[users/Jon]]

> Are you running perl with the environemnt settings specified on the page?
> Can you show how it fails to find the bundle? --[[Joey]]

>> I was not. Next time I build I will have to try that (I'll need to tweak it as I already override PERL5LIB; also I need to specify http proxies). Thanks for your help! -- [[users/Jon]]

---

##Further problems with Bundle::IkiWiki
I'm also having trouble with finding Bundle::IkiWiki.  I've tried it with the environment settings and without them, and also using the interactive 
form of the cpan command.  I've also gone to cpan.org and searched -- eg

    http://search.cpan.org/search?query=ikiwiki&mode=all

and no Bundle for IkiWiki comes up at all.

The error I get from the various cpan attempts is basically always the same:

    Warning: Cannot install Bundle::IkiWiki, don't know what it is.
    Try the command

        i /Bundle::IkiWiki/

    to find objects with matching identifiers.

When I try that command, BTW, it basically seems to find the same stuff I get when searching on the cpan web site.

This happens both on Ubuntu 8.04 and CentOS 5.1

Any help would be greatly appreciated... --kent

> Bundle::IkiWiki is included in ikiwiki itself, so of course cpan.org
> does not know about it.
> 
> If you can show me exactly what command you ran (the tested, working
> commands on the parent page?) and how it failed, I can try to debug
> your problem.

Just today I noticed the "Bundle" subdirectory.  What a moron I am! :-)  Also, I misunderstood the PERL5LIB=`pwd` part -- 
I glibly thought it indicated the sink for the installation of the modules, rather than the source, and I was running 
the cpan command from another window in a different directory, and just spiraled down into error...

> The real question in my mind is why you'd want to do this at all when
> using Ubuntu, which incldues packages of ikiwiki and all its
> dependencies. --[[Joey]]

For ubuntu 8.04: 

    $ ikiwiki --version
    ikiwiki version 2.32.3ubuntu2.1
    $

I was just trying to get the latest version.

In any case, thanks for the help, and thanks for the superb software.  I really like it a lot.
