The `calendar` directive is supplied by the [[!iki plugins/calendar]] plugin.
This plugin requires extra setup.  See the plugin documentation for details.

This directive displays a calendar, similar to the typical calendars shown on
some blogs.

# examples

	\[[!calendar ]]

	\[[!calendar type="month" pages="blog/* and !*/Discussion"]]

	\[[!calendar type="year" year="2005" pages="blog/* and !*/Discussion"]]

The calendar is essentially a fancy front end to archives of previous
pages, usually used for blogs. It can produce a calendar for a given month,
or a list of months for a given year.

The month format calendar simply links to any page posted on each
day of the month. The year format calendar links to archive pages, with
names like `archives/2007` (for all of 2007)  and `archives/2007/01`
(for January, 2007). For this to work, you'll need to create these archive
pages. They typically use [[inline]] to display or list pages created in
the given time frame.

## usage

* `type` - Used to specify the type of calendar wanted. Can be one of
  "month" or "year". The default is a month view calendar.
* `pages` - Specifies the [[ikiwiki/PageSpec]] of pages to link to from the
  month calendar. Defaults to "*".
* `archivebase` - Configures the base of the archives hierarchy. The
  default is "archives". Note that this default can also be overridden
  for the whole wiki by setting `archivebase` in ikiwiki's setup file.
* `year` - The year for which the calendar is requested. Defaults to the
  current year.
* `month` - The numeric month for which the calendar is requested, in the
  range 1..12. Used only for the month view calendar, and defaults to the
  current month.
* `week_start_day` - A number, in the range 0..6, which represents the day
  of the week that the month calendar starts with. 0 is Sunday, 1 is Monday,
  and so on. Defaults to 0, which is Sunday.
* `months_per_row` - In the annual calendar, number of months to place in
  each row. Defaults to 3.
