I started using Ikiwiki as a way to replace [Trac](http://trac.edgewall.org/) when using [Monotone](http://monotone.ca/).  Version control has been an interest of mine for a while and I wrote most of the ikiwiki [[rcs/monotone]] plugin.

Lately I've been using Ikiwiki for other things and seem to be scratching a few itches here and there. :)

I generally use my [[ikiwiki/openid]] login when editing here: <http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~willu/>

> Regarding your recent change to [[ikiwiki/directive]], won't the inlined
> list of directives tend to be empty when it's shown? Only if
> listdirectives is installed will the directives underlay be enabled.
> --[[Joey]]

>> Hrm.  Yes.  Pretty silly.  I just wanted to read directive docs.

>> But it seems to work on this wiki at least, and you don't have listdirectives enabled.
>> Is it only working because you have old files in your output directory that aren't
>> backed by source files any more? -- [[Will]]

>>> This wiki's source is ikiwiki's doc/ directory, which contains all the
>>> files that are installed into the underlay, including the directive
>>> documentation. But, it's special that way. 
>>> I've now enabled listdirectives on this wiki, BTW. --[[Joey]]

### Open Bugs:

[[!inline pages="link(users/Will) and bugs/* and !bugs/done and !bugs/discussion and !link(patch) and !link(bugs/done) and !bugs/*/*" archive="yes" feeds="no" ]]

### Open ToDos:

[[!inline pages="link(users/Will) and todo/* and !todo/done and !todo/discussion and !link(patch) and !link(todo/done) and !bugs/*/*" archive="yes" feeds="no" ]]

### Unapplied Patches:

[[!inline pages="link(users/Will) and (todo/* or bugs/*) and !bugs/done and !bugs/discussion and !todo/done and !todo/discussion and link(patch) and !link(bugs/done) and !link(todo/done) and !bugs/*/*" archive="yes" feeds="no" ]]
