* Has bugs updating things if the bestlink of a page changes due to
  adding/removing a page. For example, if Foo/Bar links to "Baz", which is
  Foo/Baz, and Foo/Bar/Baz gets added, it will update the links in Foo/Bar
  to point to it, but will forget to update the linkbacks in Foo/Baz.
  
* And if Foo/Bar/Baz is then removed, it forgets to update Foo/Bar to link
  back to Foo/Baz.

    -- is this still true? (Yes (as of 1.0))

* If I try to do a web commit, to a svn+ssh repo, it fails with
  "Host key verification failed."
  I think that the setuid isn't fully taking; it should be running as me,
  but commit log shows www-data. So maybe it has the wrong username? Or
  EUID/Real UID screwage.
* Can't put the source in a directory named .source; the page finder skips
  that due to too broad exclusion of any dotfile in a path.
* [[ikiwiki]] should go to the same place as [[index]] (on this wiki).
* Web browsers don't word-wrap lines in submitted text, which makes editing a
  page that someone wrote in a web browser annoying (`gqip` is vim user's
  friend here). Is there any way to improve this?
* The diff links in RecentChanges go to a viewcvs backtrace if the rev in question is when the page was added. Is this a viewcvs bug, or a behavior ikiwiki needs to work around?
    - As a special case, there should certianly be no history link for
      pages generated from the underlaydir as it can never work for them.
* If a page stops inlining anthing, its rss feed file
  will linger around and not be deleted.
* RSS output contains relative links. Ie. http://kitenet.net/~joey/blog/index.rss contains a link to http://kitenet.net/~joey/blog/../blog.html
* If a file in the srcdir is removed, exposing a file in the underlaydir,
  ikiwiki will not notice the change and rebuild it until the file in the
  underlaydir gets a mtime newer than the mtime the removed file had.
* ikiwiki will generate html formatted error messages to the command
  line if --cgi is set, even if it's not yet running as a cgi
* if a page containing an rss feed happens to show up in an rss feed,
  the preprocessor directives won't be expanded (good) but are left in
  raw rather than removed (bad).
* add\_depends() needs work. If there are two preprocessor directives on a page,   and one calls add\_depends("foo"), while the other calls add\_depends("* !foo"), the second one wins, page foo will not be matched by the appended globlist.

  What it needs to do is be smarter about merging depends, so if "foo" is added to "!foo", it should yeild "foo"; adding "!foo" to "foo" should again yeild "foo". That's easy, what's hard is when there are globs involved and potentially partially overlapping included and excluded subsets..

  A basic heuristic might be, when merging two globlists, if either contains negated expressions, remove those expressions. This is not ideal, it does avoid it skipping pages that should be in the merged list though.

  A slightly smarter heuristic: When merging two globlists, find negated expressions, de-negate them, and test them to see if they match anything in the other globlist. If so, remove the negated expression, if not, keep. This would probably be good enough. 