# Help on formatting text

Text on this wiki is, by default, written in a form very close to how you
might write text for an email message. This style of text formatting is
called [[MarkDown]], and it works like this:

Leave blank lines between paragraphs.

You can \**emphasise*\* or \*\***strongly emphasise**\*\* text by placing it
in single or double asterisks.

To create a list, start each line with an asterisk:

* "* this is my list"
* "* another item"

To make a numbered list, start each line with a number (any number will
do) followed by a period:

1. "1. first line"
2. "2. second line"
2. "2. third line"

To create a header, start a line with one or more `#` characters followed
by a space and the header text. The number of `#` characters controls the
size of the header:

# # h1
## ## h2
### ### h3
#### #### h4
##### ##### h5
###### ###### h6

You can also make the first two levels of heading by underlining text with
equals or dash:

heading 1
=========
=========
=========

heading 2
---------
---------
---------

To create a horizontal rule, just write three or more dashes or stars on
their own line:

----

To quote someone, prefix the quote with ">":

> To be or not to be,
> that is the question.

To write a code block, indent each line with a tab or 4 spaces:

	10 PRINT "Hello, world!"
	20 GOTO 10

To link to another page on the wiki, place the page's name inside double
square brackets, so you would use `\[[WikiLink]]` to link to [[WikiLink]].

To link to any other web page, or to an email address, you can just put the
url in angle brackets: <<http://ikiwiki.info>>, or you can use the
form \[link text\]\(url\)

----

You can also use [[PreProcessorDirective]]s to do additional cool stuff.

[[if test="enabled(smiley)"  then="""
Also, because this wiki has the smiley plugin enabled, you can
insert [[smileys]] and some other useful symbols.
"""]]
