# NAME

ikiwiki-transition - transition ikiwiki pages to new syntaxes, etc

# SYNOPSIS

ikiwiki-transition type ...

# DESCRIPTION

`ikiwiki-transition` aids in converting wiki pages when there's a major
change in ikiwiki syntax. It also handles other transitions not involving
wiki pages.

# prefix_directives your.setup

The `prefix_directives` mode converts all pages from the old preprocessor
directive syntax, requiring a space, to the new syntax, prefixed by '!'.

Preprocessor directives which already use the new syntax will remain
unchanged.

Note that if a page contains wiki links with spaces, which some
older versions of ikiwiki accepted, the prefix_directives transition will
treat these as preprocessor directives and convert them.

# setupformat your.setup

The `setupformat` mode converts a setup file from using a single `wrappers` block
to using `cgi_wrapper`, `git_wrapper`, etc.

Note that all comments and any unusual stuff like perl code in the setup
file will be lost, as it is entirely rewritten by the transition.

# aggregateinternal your.setup

The `aggregateinternal` mode moves pages aggregated by the aggregate plugin
so that the `aggregateinternal` option can be enabled.

# moveprefs your.setup

Moves values that used to be admin preferences into the setup file.

Note that all comments and any unusual stuff like perl code in the setup
file will be lost, as it is entirely rewritten by the move.

# indexdb srcdir

The `indexdb` mode handles converting a plain text `.ikiwiki/index` file to
a binary `.ikiwiki/indexdb`. You do not normally need to run
`ikiwiki-transition indexdb`; ikiwiki will automatically run it as
necessary.

# hashpassword srcdir

The `hashpassword` mode forces any plaintext passwords stored in the
`.ikiwiki/userdb` file to be replaced with password hashes. (The
Authen::Passphrase perl module is needed to do this.)

If this is not done explicitly, a user's plaintext password will be
automatically converted to a hash when a user logs in for the first time
after upgrade to ikiwiki 2.48.

# AUTHOR

Josh Triplett <josh@freedesktop.org>, Joey Hess <joey@ikiwiki.info>

Warning: this page is automatically made into ikiwiki-transition's man page, edit with care
