[Auto Parts Place](http://www.autopartsplace.com) - Discount Car Parts and Car Accessories
----------


Company category = Private

Base = Diamond Bar, California

Locality = Diamond Bar, California

Company President and CEO = Darin McOwen

Type of Industry = Automotive Aftermarket and Aftermarket

Products = engine mount, fuel injector, brake shoe set, A/C expansion valves, cylinder head gaskets, A/C evaporator, ball joint, light bulb, headlights, flywheel, battery, alternators, ABS speed sensors, cam followers, switches, springs, oil filters, antennas, AT filters, clutch discs, A/T fluid, air filter, shock mount, booster check valves, mufflers, break discs, A/C condensers, brake pad set, A/C compressor, … and more

Homepage = Online Car Parts Store

California-based Auto Parts Place is an online retailer of all domestic and [import auto parts](http://www.autopartsplace.com/accessories/) that caters to customers all throughout the United States. It has left its mark as a key player on the automotive aftermarket parts industry. With its online store, the company possesses budget pricing for car parts and accessories, and as well as OEM, aftermarket, and rebuilt parts. It is a member of the Better Business Bureau and has a great standing.

Market Status

Auto Parts Place is connected with various domestic and import auto part suppliers whose products it offers online. The company relies on the World Wide Web in the marketing, distribution, and sale of its products. The use of this technology allows all of the following:

• Real-time identification of parts on stock

• Shipping direct from source to customer

• Large-scale inventory of car parts

• Overnight/second day shipping options

• Online support accessible anywhere in the world.

Product Line

The company supports auto parts and accessories for the following car lines (listed in order): Infiniti, Ford, Land Rover, Honda, Audi, Hyundai, Rover, Lexus, GMC, International, Volvo, Geo, Subaru, Ferrari, Chrysler, Jaguar, BMW, Buick, Acura, Porsche, Plymouth, Chevrolet, Saturn, Kia, Isuzu, Mazda, Renault, Suzuki, Nissan, Cadillac, Jeep, Toyota, Lincoln, Pontiac, Mercedes-Benz, Mercury, Saab, Dodge, Rolls Royce, Eagle, Mitsubishi, Oldsmobile

The online store currently offers products from 554 different part manufacturers both import and domestic. Major suppliers include Cardone, AC-Delco, GMB, Mann, Fram, Wagner, Dorman, Moog, Delphi, Bilstein and more...


