The easiest way to install ikiwiki is using the Debian package, but you can
also [[download]] the source and install it by hand. Ikiwiki should work on
most unix-like systems.

## Dependencies

Ikiwiki is a perl program, and needs a recent version of perl such as
5.10. (5.8.0 has been reported not to work).

It's recommended you have a C compiler, as ikiwiki uses one to build
wrappers.

Ikiwiki requires the [[cpan Text::Markdown]], [[cpan URI]],
[[cpan HTML::Parser]], [[cpan HTML::Template]], and [[cpan HTML::Scrubber]]
perl modules be installed. It can also use a lot of other perl modules, if
they are available.

Various [[plugins]] use other perl modules and utilities; see their individual
documentation for details.

## Debian

The Debian packages depend on and recommend an appropriate set of packages,
so just install ikiwiki using apt.

## Fedora 7

While Fedora 7 doesn't have an ikiwiki package, you can install needed
perl modules using this command:

	yum install perl-Text-Markdown perl-Mail-Sendmail perl-HTML-Scrubber \
	  perl-XML-Simple perl-TimeDate perl-HTML-Template perl-CGI-FormBuilder \
	  perl-CGI-Session perl-File-MimeInfo perl-gettext

## Installing by hand

If you want to install by hand from the tarball, you should make sure that
all the perl modules are installed. This is one way to install them, using
CPAN:

	PERL5LIB=. PERL_MM_USE_DEFAULT=1 perl -MCPAN -e 'CPAN::Shell->install("Bundle::IkiWiki")'
	PERL5LIB=. PERL_MM_USE_DEFAULT=1 perl -MCPAN -e 'CPAN::Shell->install("Bundle::IkiWiki::Extras")'

Then to build and install ikiwiki:

	perl Makefile.PL # PREFIX=/dir to install elsewhere
	make
	make test # optional
	make install

If you're using a shared hosting provider, of the sort where you don't have
root, you can still install ikiwiki. There are tutorials covering this for
a few providers:

* [[tips/NearlyFreeSpeech]]
* [[tips/DreamHost]]
