This is the SandBox, a page anyone can edit to try out ikiwiki.

----

So, I'm wondering why ikiwiki requires links to have no spaces in their names, and uses .html suffixes. I really don't like having to use [[CamelCase]] for multi-word links, and it's generally not good practice to encode stuff like filetype or specific technologies in the URL; that's what we have a MIME type for. Anyhow, this is really just a test for playing around in the sanbox, but those are the two things that bother me the most off the bat about ikiwiki.

> For the former: because links with spaces get parsed as [[preprocessor_directives|preprocessordirective]].  You can get away with it if the first word doesn't correspond to a preprocessor directive.  If you have another syntax you'd prefer, feel free to propose it.  For instance, I can imagine extending the syntax with something like [["link with spaces"]].
> For the latter: see the new `usedirs` option if you want to avoid .html suffixes.

----

testing openid ... ignore.

Test. Проверка. テスト ığüşöçİ ทดสอบ éphémère

Here's a paragraph.

Here's another one with *emphasised* text.

do ë characters work? Sure.

OpenID test. It works!!

Test..

There are Polish diacritical characters: ą, ć, ę, ł, ń, ó, ś, ż, ź.

# Header

## Subheader

> This is a blockquote.
>
> This is the first level of quoting.
>
> > This is nested blockquote.
>
>> And without a space works too.
>>> to three levels
>
> Back to the first level.

Numbered list 

1. First item.
 1. Sub item.
1. Another.
1. And another..
 1. foo
 2. bar
  3. baz
   4. qux
    5. quux

Bulleted list

* item
* *item*
* item
* one
  * two
     * three
       * four

----

[[haiku hint="sandbox play"]]

----

## Different sorts of links:

* [[WikiLink]]
* [[different_name_for_a_WikiLink|WikiLink]]
* [[different name for a WikiLink (with spaces this time)|WikiLink]]
* <http://www.gnu.org/>
* [GNU](http://www.gnu.org/)
* [Email](mailto:noone@invalid)
* WikiLink without any markup.

-----

This sandbox is also a [[blog]]!

[[inline pages="sandbox/*" rootpage="sandbox" show="5"]]

----
[[newpage]]
---

Ethan wants to make a [[sandbox/castle]] in the sand.

hi

just testing

Testing a user page for [[users/kyle]]

----
what happens if i edit something with an openid set?

-----------

So what's the point? [[How is this different to any other WiKi|features]]

----
Test.. I was looking for a wiki supporting OpenID~ 

----
me too...
