If you want to translate your wiki into another language, there are
essentailly three peices needed for a complete translation:

1. The messages in the ikiwiki program itself need to be translated.
   Ikiwiki is internationalised, and most such messages are already marked
   with `gettext()`. THe source tarball includes a creates a `po/ikiwiki.pot`
   that can be copied and translated as a po file. All very standard.

   Note that a few things in the source are not currently translated. These
   include:

   * Error messages of the "should never happen" variety.
   * Certian info in commit messages, which is not visible from inside the
     wiki, but is visible in the commit logs. This needs to stay in English
     so that ikiwiki can parse it back out of the logs.
   * Some parts of FormBuilder forms, which should be translatable by
     adding templates. Note that these forms don't need templates for the
     English version.
   * The name of the `index` page, which has a special meaning to browsers
     anyway.
   * The names of some other pages, like `sidebar` and `openid`.
   * The names and values of parameters, both to the program, in the setup
     file, and in preprocessor directives.

1. The templates also need to be translated. Some work has been done on an
   infrastructure for maintaining translated templates, as documented in
   [[patchqueue/l10n]], but until that's complete, you'd need to copy and
   translate the templates by hand.

1. The basewiki itself needs to be translated. Whether to only translate
   the page contents, or also translate the page names, is an open
   question.
