ikiwiki uses the HTML::Template module as its template engine. This
supports things like conditionals and loops in templates and is pretty easy
to learn.

The aim is to keep almost all html out of ikiwiki and in the templates.

It ships with some basic templates which can be customised. These are
located in /usr/share/ikiwiki/templates by default.

* `page.tmpl` - Used for displaying all regular wiki pages.
* `misc.tmpl` - Generic template used for any page that doesn't
  have a custom template.
* `editpage.tmpl` - Create/edit page.
* `change.tmpl` - Used to create a page describing a change made to the wiki.
* `passwordmail.tmpl` - Not a html template, this is used to
  generate a mail with an url the user can use to reset their password.
* `rsspage.tmpl` - Used for generating rss feeds for [[blogs|blog]].
* `rssitem.tmpl` - Used for generating individual items on rss feeds.
* `atompage.tmpl` - Used for generating atom feeds for blogs.
* `atomitem.tmpl` - Used for generating individual items on atom feeds.
* `inlinepage.tmpl` - Used for adding a page inline in a blog
  page.
* `archivepage.tmpl` - Used for listing a page in a blog archive page.
* `blogpost.tmpl` - Used for a form to add a post to a blog (and a rss/atom links)
* `feedlink.tmpl` - Used to add rss/atom links if blogpost.tmpl is not used.
* `aggregatepost.tmpl` - Used by the [[plugins/aggregate]] plugin to create
  a page for a post.
* `searchform.tmpl` - Used by the [[plugins/search]] plugin to add a search
  form to wiki pages.
* `searchquery.tmpl` - This is an omega template, used by the
  [[plugins/search]] plugin.
* `comment.tmpl` - This template is used to display a comment
  by the [[plugins/comments]] plugin.
* `editcomment.tmpl` - This template is the comment post form for the
  [[plugins/comments]] plugin.
* `commentmoderation.tmpl` - This template is used to produce the comment
  moderation form.

The [[plugins/pagetemplate]] plugin can allow individual pages to use a
different template than `page.tmpl`.

The [[plugins/template]] plugin also uses templates, though those
[[templates]] are stored in the wiki and inserted into pages.

The [[plugins/edittemplate]] plugin is used to make new pages default to
containing text from a template, which can be filled as out the page is
edited.
