## Markdown or CGI error prevents web-based editing 

I have a working ikiwiki configuration with an SVN backend, running on Ubuntu 7.10, Apache 2.2.4. I'm using Perl 5.8.8, however, I had to use Text::Markdown 1.0.5 from CPAN instead of the latest because I had the same issue as someone [here](http://ikiwiki.info/index/discussion/) (Namely I was getting this error until I used the old Markdown version: "*** glibc detected *** double free or corruption (!prev): 0x0922e478 ***
").

> aside: that might have been related to [Text::Markdown bug #37297](http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=37297).
> --ChapmanFlack 9Jul2008

CGI seems to be working at least partly - the History and Recent Changes pages both work. However, if I attempt to edit or create a page, I get this error:
    Error: Failed to load plugin IkiWiki::Plugin::mdwn: Can't locate IkiWiki/Plugin/mdwn.pm in @INC (@INC contains: /etc/perl /usr/local/lib/perl/5.8.8 /usr/local/share/perl/5.8.8 /usr/lib/perl5 /usr/share/perl5 /usr/lib/perl/5.8 /usr/share/perl/5.8 /usr/local/lib/site_perl .) at (eval 6) line 2. BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at (eval 6) line 2. 

Since ikiwiki builds, it has to be finding Markdown at build time, right? What am I doing wrong here? I would appreciate a point in the right direction. Thanks. --mrled

> Ikiwiki is failing to find `IkiWiki/Plugin/mdwn.pm` which is a plugin included in ikiwiki itself.
> So, that file must not have been installed in any of the directories in the @INC search path listed.
> Either fix the installation so ikiwiki's perl modules are installed in one of the standard locations,
> or you could use the `libdir` setting in the setup file to point ikiwiki
> at the directory the perl modules are installed. --[[Joey]]

>> Ah hah! That helped... once I knew that it was ikiwiki's internal thing, I was able to figure out that it was a permissions issue. For the record, I didn't change permissions or the default install prefix of /usr/local (well, at least not on purpose). Thanks for your help. --mrled

>>> Interesting.. so just a permissions problem of some sort that prevented the cgi from seeing the modules that were there in-path? --[[Joey]]
