Don't panic, Joey! ;) It's not a bug. It's only my small wish :)

Could you also please convert "somehost.com/user" OpenID to
"user [somehost.com]" at RecentChanges page? You just do it
for "user.somehost.com" OpenIDs. I think that same display form
for all OpenIDs is a good idea. What's your opinion?

> It's probably ok to do this, although there's the potential it might
> misfire on some url. I've implemented it on a trial basis. [[bugs/done]] --[[Joey]]

>> Thanks! What version of ikiwiki do you use at ikiwiki.info
>> site? I still can see my "getopenid.com/ptecza" OpenID at
>> RecentChanges page there... --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>> I use the latest version I trust enough..

>>>> Joey, your regexp is not good enough. Now I can see "tecza [getopenid.com]",
>>>> instead of "ptecza [getopenid.com]" (you cut first character of my login).
>>>> --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>>>> fixed now

>>>>>> Yes, now it's OK. Thank you very much! --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

BTW, Happy New Year for you and Debian 'etch' and all ikiwiki
users! :) --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>> I've just noticed that '/' character in title of my wish
>> wasn't escaped and ikiwiki created two pages, instead of one.
>> It's a bug, of course. --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>> Sorry for confusing! I meant two files (directory and page),
>>> instead of one (page).

>>>> Yep, fixed. --[[Joey]]

>>>>> Awesome! :) Thanks a lot!

>>> BTW, I have some problems with singing in using getopenid.com
>>> server, so I also use myopenid.com server :) --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>>> They were having some glitches last week.. --[[Joey]]

>>>>> It's good to know :) --[[Paweł|ptecza]]
