I just went through the standard procedure described for setup, copied the blog directory from examples into my source directory, ran ikiwiki, and everything seems to have worked, except that none of the 
&#91;&#91;!meta ... &#93;&#93; tags get converted. They simply show up in the html files unformatted, with no exclamation point, and with p tags around them. Any ideas? using ikiwiki version 2.40 on freebsd --mjg

> The meta plugin is not enabled by default. It's pulled in by the
> goodstuff plugin, so add one or the other to the add_plugins line in your
> config file. --[[Joey]]

Can the instructions for using `ikiwiki-makerepo` be clarified. This
command wants to create folders in the directory it is run in. Which
directory should that be - `$SRCDIR?` --Andy

> No, `ikiwiki-makerepo` does not create directories in the current
> directory. You specify the directory you want it to create and it creates
> the directory and makes it into a repository. The setup instuctions have
> examples of doing this. I don't see anything unclear. --[[Joey]]

Sorry, was not precise enough. It does if you are using the git option. I
believe this is partially explained on the rcs/git/ page. However I'm still
not totally clear where I should run the command when using git. If I
should be in $SRCDIR then updating the instructions to something like

    REPOSITORY=~/wiki.git
    cd $SRCDIR
    ikiwiki-makerepo git $SCDIR $REPOSITORY

might clear things up a little. Apologies if I'm being a bit dim, learning
ikiwiki and git at same time :) 

Have tried 3 options

1. mkdir $REP cd $REP run command (says $REP already exists so won't run)
2. rm -rf $REP cd $SRC run command (creates a repository in $SRC, does not create $REP ends with "remote origin already exists"
3. mkdir $TMP cd $TMP run command (creates a repository in $SRC/.git creates a repository in $TMP, does nothing to $REP, ends with "remote origin already exists".

Version of ikiwiki installed is package from Ubuntu/Hardy 2.19
Git version is 1.5.2.5

n.b. svn version of command worked fine :)

--Andy

>	Initialized empty shared Git repository in /home/deploy/tmp/
>	Initialized empty Git repository in .git/
>	fatal: '/home/deploy/tmp/repo': unable to chdir or not a git archive

Looks like your git does not support GIT_DIR being used with git-init. I
see some mentions of changes in git's changelog for 1.5.3 that look
relevant. I've changed ikiwiki-makerepo to use a method more portable to
older versions of git. --[[Joey]]

Many thanks Joey, upgraded my git, and now have working iki :) -- Andy

----

It isn't intended that .ikiwiki be versioned, is it? Do you have a svn:ignore set? 
Is there some magic way you can make the svn commands (and presumably commands for 
the other VCSs here) ignore the .ikiwiki directory during step 8, when they import it?
If not, maybe a note should be made that the user should delete this file before 
they import. --Ethan

> No, .ikiwiki should not be versioned, and a svn:ignore of it is reasonable,
> although probably too much noise for the setup instructions.
> I've switched to a different method that preserves .ikiwiki, w/o checking
> it in. --[[Joey]]

----

These instructions should probably show how to use a bare Git repository
(`GIT_DIR=somewhere.git git-init-db`) rather than a repository with a full
working copy. You can always clone the repository if you want your own local
working copy. Furthermore, this allows you to make multiple commits to your
working copy before pushing them to the repository and causing the wiki to
update. --[[JoshTriplett]]

> I'm currently testing and running such a setup. --[[tschwinge]]

Furthermore the git instructions should be changed to move the *.ikiwiki*
directory back into the wiki's working copy directory, isn't it? --[[tschwinge]]

> Yes, I think so.  I will clean these instructions up unless somebody tells me we're missing something fundamental. --[[BartMassey]]

>> Either you do it or I'll do it somewhen soon.  --[[tschwinge]]

----

Curious as to why support for CVS is not built in. --[[Luther]]

> See [[todo/CVS_backend|todo/CVS_backend]], but you might consider switching to a better version control system. --[[JoshTriplett]]

----

What is the syntax for specifying the adminuser as an openid user?  I've tried a couple things but I'm missing something.   Thanks for any pointers.  -- [[AdamShand]]

> Just put the openid url in there. It has to be the full url with
> "http://". --[[Joey]]

----

I apologize if this is the incorrect forum for this question, but I am trying to get ikiwiki set up and running with git.  I followed all the directions and all seems to work until I go back and try to make changes.  The steps I am performing:

    cd $SRCDIR  (e.g. ~/ikisrc)
    vim index.mdwn (add a couple lines)
    git commit -a -m 'test'
    git push

I then get a long error message which reads in part "You asked me to pull without telling me which branch you
want to merge with, and 'branch.master.merge' in your configuration file does not tell me either." From that point on, I get:

    sws@odin:~/dev/ikisrc$ git push
    To /home/git/repos/myikiwiki.git
     ! [rejected]        master -> master (non-fast forward)
    error: failed to push to '/home/git/repos/myikiwiki.git'

If I do a git clone ssh://odin/path/to/$REPOSITORY from another machine and try to edit I get the same error sequence.  What am I doing wrong?

-----

I follow every steps of the setup procedure, change some templates and tried to modify some page through the web but was not able to do so. Every page seems to be locked by the adminuser user. When I remove the adminuser in the setup file, every ran fine. Did I miss something ? What is exactly the adminuser supposed to be allowed to ? Is he the only user allowed to modify pages ?

> This was a bug in ikwiki that was fixed in version 2.44. --[[Joey]]

-----
I hope you guys can put up with an absolute newbie. I am fairly new to linux and completely new to Perl. I have just installed MoinMoin locally in my PC, running ubuntu 8.4 and was about to use it until I ran into your ikiwiki. I thought ikiwiki is a better fit for what I want to do, so am seriously considering installing it as well in ubuntu. Except that the install seems way beyond my understanding.

Do i need to install git first? Which git -- the git-core? Ubuntu's instructions on installing the git-core is: "sudo apt-get install git-core". Is that it? Do I need to do a git-init as well, or will the ikiwiki-makerepo handle that? If I have to do a git-init as well, what --share values should I specify?

It seems I will have to install the ikiwiki from the tar.gz file. I have downloaded it, but do I need to install CPAN or CPAN++ first? That doesn't sound right. I am totally confused already. Does anyone have some install documents pitched to someone as ignorant as I am? -- [[WillDioneda]]

> Ubuntu includes ikiwiki (in universe, I assume), so you should just be
> able to use apt or synaptic to install the package, as documented on the
> [[download]] page. Install git-core also to get git.
> 
> You do not need to use git-init if you use ikiwiki-makrepo. --[[Joey]]


Thanks for your response. You're right. Ubuntu does have ikiwiki, except that it is an older version. I tried installing it; saw some error messages from the install, and decided against it. Plus the documentation here in ikiwiki.info seems slightly different. I made an executive/beginner decision: to go for the latest tarball. And found myself in deep water, ...

Anyway, I think I might be able to install it from the tarball I downloaded. I've been reading the discussions, had a look at your screencasts, etc. I will give it another bash. -- [[WillDioneda]]

----

How do I set up cgi editing?  In setup I have:

 * cgiurl => 'http://wiki.had.co.nz/edit.cgi'
 * cgi_wrapper => 'edit.cgi'

But I don't get an edit link on my pages?  What am I doing wrong?
