It's a bit inconvenient that one also has to type in the
*Login - Confirm Password* if one only wants to change
the *Preferences -- Subscriptions*.  --[[tschwinge]]

> You don't. The password fields on the preferences fields are only needed
> if you want to change your password and should otherwise be left blank.
> --[[Joey]]

>> Aha, then the problem is Firefox, which is automatically filling the
>> *Password* field with its previous value, but not filling the
>> *Confirm Password* one.  --[[tschwinge]]

## easy access to the userdb for apache auth?

My use case is:

* restricted ikiwiki
* read/edit only allowed from the local network (done with apache restrictions)
* edit only for people authenticated (done with vanilla ikiwiki passwordauth)

I would like to allow people to read/edit the wiki from outside of the
local network, if and only if they already have an ikiwiki account.

[[httpauth]] doesn't fit since it doesn't allow anonymous local users
to create their own account. I want a single, local, simple auth
database.

My (naïve?) idea would be:

* keep the [[passwordauth]] system
* provide a way for Apache to use the userdb for authentication if
people want to connect from outside

I looked at the various auth modules for apache2. It seems that none
can use a "perl Storable data" file. So, I think some solutions could
be:

* use a sqlite database instead of a perl Storable file
  * can be used with
    [mod_auth_dbd](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/mod_authn_dbd.html) 
  * requires a change in ikiwiki module [[passwordauth]]
* use an external program to read the userdb and talk with
  [mod_auth_external](http://unixpapa.com/mod_auth_external.html)
  * requires the maintainance of this external auth proxy over ikiwiki
    userdb format changes
  * (I don't know perl)
* include this wrapper in ikiwiki
  * something like `ikiwiki --auth user:pass:userdb` check the
    `user:pass` pair in `userdb` and returns an Accept/Reject flag to
    Apache 
  * requires a change in ikiwiki core
  * still requires
    [mod_auth_external](http://unixpapa.com/mod_auth_external.html)
* do it with Apache perl sections
  * (I don't know perl)

Any opinion/suggestion/solution to this is welcome and appreciated.

--
[[NicolasLimare]]

