I have perl 5.10.0. Ikiwiki 2.44 compiles fine. Compiling 2.45 fails after 'make':

    perl -Iblib/lib   ikiwiki.out -libdir . -setup docwiki.setup -refresh
    refreshing wiki..
    docwiki.setup: Failed to load plugin IkiWiki::Plugin::goodstuff: Failed to load plugin IkiWiki::Plugin::shortcut: Too many arguments for IkiWiki::srcfile at IkiWiki/Plugin/shortcut.pm line 16, near "1)"
    Compilation failed in require at (eval 31) line 2.
    BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at (eval 31) line 2.
    BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at (eval 23) line 2.
    BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at (eval 10) line 21.
    make: *** [extra_build] Error 255

> I can't reproduce this. It looks like your IkiWiki.pm is out of sync with
> your IkiWiki/Plugin/shortcut.pm. The ones distributed in 2.45 are in
> sync. Or your perl is failing to use the right version of Ikiwiki.pm, 
> perhaps using a previously installed version. But the -Iblib/lib
> instructs perl to look in that directory first, and the Makefile
> puts Ikiwiki.pm there. --[[Joey]]

>> I removed all traces of the previous installation, and now 2.45 compiles.
>> I don't know why it was picking up the old version of Ikiwiki.pm, but now it
>> works. Please close this bug, and thanks for the help.

>>> Where were the files from the old installation? I still don't
>>> understand why they would be seen, since -Iblib/lib is passed to perl.
>>> --[[Joey]]

>>>> They were under /usr/local/{bin,lib,share}. I can try to provide more info,
>>>> or try to reproduce it, if you need me to.

>>>>> Well, here are some things to try.

	perl -Iblib/lib -V

>>>>> This should have blib/lib first in the listed @INC

	joey@kodama:~/src/ikiwiki>strace perl -Iblib/lib -e 'use IkiWiki' 2>&1 |grep IkiWiki.pm
	stat64("blib/lib/IkiWiki.pmc", 0xbfa1594c) = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
	stat64("blib/lib/IkiWiki.pm", {st_mode=S_IFREG|0444, st_size=31982, ...}) = 0
	open("blib/lib/IkiWiki.pm", O_RDONLY|O_LARGEFILE) = 5

>>>>> This is how perl finds IkiWiki.pm here. Note that I've run "make" first.

OK, this is what I'm getting:

    $ perl -Iblib/lib -V
    @INC:
    blib/lib
    /usr/lib/perl5/site_perl/5.10.0
    /usr/share/perl5/site_perl/5.10.0
    /usr/lib/perl5/vendor_perl
    /usr/share/perl5/vendor_perl
    /usr/share/perl5/vendor_perl
    /usr/lib/perl5/core_perl
    /usr/share/perl5/core_perl
    /usr/lib/perl5/current
    /usr/lib/perl5/site_perl/current

I ran the following in my current 2.45 source dir, where the `make` already succeded. If you need it, I can post the output
in the case where `make` fails.

    $ strace perl -Iblib/lib -e 'use IkiWiki' 2>&1 |grep IkiWiki.pm
    stat64("blib/lib/IkiWiki.pmc", 0xbfa6167c) = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
    stat64("blib/lib/IkiWiki.pm", {st_mode=S_IFREG|0444, st_size=31901, ...}) = 0
    open("blib/lib/IkiWiki.pm", O_RDONLY|O_LARGEFILE) = 3

> I need to see it in the case where it's failing. --[[Joey]]

I finally had some time to look into this again.

I wiped ikiwiki off my system, and then installed version 2.41. I tried installing
2.46 and get the same error as above, so I'll be using 2.46 below. (BTW, the debian
page still lists 2.45 as current; I had to fiddle with the download link to get 2.46).

After running `./Makefile.PL` I get:

    $ perl -Iblib/lib -V
    [bunch of lines snipped]
      @INC:
    blib/lib
    [bunch of paths snipped]

Running the strace:

    $ strace perl -Iblib/lib -e 'use IkiWiki' 2>&1 |grep IkiWiki.pm

I get a bunch of ENOENTs and then at the end:

    stat64("./IkiWiki.pmc", 0xbfa2fe5c)     = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
    stat64("./IkiWiki.pm", {st_mode=S_IFREG|0644, st_size=31987, ...}) = 0
    open("./IkiWiki.pm", O_RDONLY|O_LARGEFILE) = 3

After running `make` (and having it fail as described above):

    $ strace perl -Iblib/lib -e 'use IkiWiki' 2>&1 |grep IkiWiki.pm
    stat64("blib/lib/IkiWiki.pmc", 0xbfd7999c) = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
    stat64("blib/lib/IkiWiki.pm", {st_mode=S_IFREG|0444, st_size=31901, ...}) = 0
    open("blib/lib/IkiWiki.pm", O_RDONLY|O_LARGEFILE) = 3

I don't know what is going on, but I'll run any more tests you need me to.

> No help.  
> The only further thing I can think to try is `strace -f` the entire failing
> `make` run (or the ikiwiki command that's failing in it, if you can
> reproduce the failure at the command line). --[[Joey]]

I have 2.46 installed and I can reproduce the bug reported against 2.49. The command that fails is:

    $ /usr/bin/perl -Iblib/lib   ikiwiki.out -libdir . -setup docwiki.setup -refresh
    docwiki.setup: Failed to load plugin IkiWiki::Plugin::inline: Too many arguments for IkiWiki::htmlize at IkiWiki/Plugin/inline.pm line 359, near "))"
    Compilation failed in require at (eval 14) line 2.
    BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at (eval 14) line 2.
    BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at (eval 10) line 21.

strace -f produces a 112K file. I don't know enough to be comfortable analyzing it.
However, lines like:

    stat64("/usr/local/share/perl5/site_perl/5.10.0/IkiWiki.pm", {st_mode=S_IFREG|0444, st_size=31982, ...}) = 0

make me think the make process is not completely independent of a previous
installation. Joey, should I email you the strace log file?

> Email it (joey@ikiwiki.info), or post it to a website somewhere.
> --[[Joey]]

> The relevant part of the file is:

	execve("/usr/bin/perl", ["/usr/bin/perl", "-Iblib/lib", "ikiwiki.out", "-libdir", ".", "-setup", "docwiki.setup", "-refresh"], [/* 55 vars */]) = 0
	[...]
	stat64("blib/lib/5.10.0/i686-linux-thread-multi", 0xbfa72240) = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
	stat64("blib/lib/5.10.0", 0xbfa72240)   = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
	stat64("blib/lib/i686-linux-thread-multi", 0xbfa72240) = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
	[...]
	stat64("/usr/local/share/perl5/site_perl/5.10.0/IkiWiki.pmc", 0xbfa71e5c) = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
	stat64("/usr/local/share/perl5/site_perl/5.10.0/IkiWiki.pm", {st_mode=S_IFREG|0444, st_size=31982, ...}) = 0
	open("/usr/local/share/perl5/site_perl/5.10.0/IkiWiki.pm", O_RDONLY|O_LARGEFILE) = 4

> So it doesn't look for IkiWiki.pm in blib at all. But it clearly has been asked to look in blib, since it
> looks for the 3 directories in it. When I run the same thing locally, I get:

	execve("/usr/bin/perl", ["/usr/bin/perl", "-Iblib/lib", "ikiwiki.out", "-libdir", ".", "-setup", "docwiki.setup", "-refresh"], [/* 55 vars */]) = 0
	[...]
	stat64("blib/lib/5.10.0/i486-linux-gnu-thread-multi", 0xbf84f320) = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
	stat64("blib/lib/5.10.0", 0xbf84f320) = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
	stat64("blib/lib/i486-linux-gnu-thread-multi", 0xbf84f320) = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
	[...]
	stat64("blib/lib/IkiWiki.pmc", 0xbf84ef4c) = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
	stat64("blib/lib/IkiWiki.pm", {st_mode=S_IFREG|0444, st_size=32204, ...}) = 0
	open("blib/lib/IkiWiki.pm", O_RDONLY|O_LARGEFILE) = 6

> The thing I really don't understand is why, on the system where perl fails
> to look in blib when straced as above, we've already established it *does*
> look for it when `perl -Iblib/lib -e 'use IkiWiki'` is straced.
> 
> The only differences between the two calls to perl seem to be:
> * One runs `perl`, and the other `/usr/bin/perl` -- are these really
>   the same program? Does `perl -lblib/lib ikiwiki.out -libdir . -setup docwiki.setup -refresh`
>   fail the same way as the `/usr/bin/perl` variant?
> * The `-libdir .`, which causes ikiwiki to modify `@INC`, adding "." to 
>   the front of it.
> 
> I'm entirely at a loss as to why I cannot reproduce this with the same
> versions of perl and ikiwiki as the two people who reported it. There must
> be something unusual about your systems that we have not figured out yet. --[[Joey]]
