Please have a look at
<http://www.bddebian.com/~wiki/hurd/running/debian/faq/>.
There is (on a sufficiently small display) a large free spacing between the
*vmstat* line and the first *Posted* line.
Even without any `local.css`.
This is because of `clear: both` in ikiwiki's `style.css`, line 109,
for `.pagedate, .pagelicense, .pagecopyright`.

I can override this in `local.css`, but what was the original reason for
adding this `clear: both`?

> Without investigating in detail, I think it was probably because any
> of the items can be enabled or disabled. So any of them might be the
> first item after the horizontal rule, and any might be the last item
> before the modification date. So all of them have to clear both above and
> below. I'm sure there are better ways for the CSS to handle that.
> --[[Joey]] 

>> There is indeed a better way - all the optional things below the
>> content are wrapped in `<div id="footer">`, so to have the browser wait
>> until all floating boxes have finished before rendering the footer, it
>> would be sufficient to have `#footer { clear: both; }` and remove all
>> the other footer-related `clear` attributes. I'm not sure what you mean
>> by "clear above and below" - the clear attribute takes values none, left,
>> right or both, and its purpose is to stop floating boxes (sidebars,
>> mainly) from overlapping with footers.
>>
>> ... oh, I see what you mean - this affects inlines too. In inlinepage.tmpl
>> we could wrap the "pseudo-footer" in `<div class="inlinefooter">` too?
>> Then sites could choose whether to set clear:both on the inlinefooter
>> or not, and this would be separate from the same styling on whole pages.
>>
>> [[done]] --[[smcv]]

[[patch]]
