The following patch adds a footer div on all pages to ease CSS themeing.
Indeed, the misc.tmpl, recentchanges.tmpl and editpage.tmpl templates lack such a div.

> So, the problem with this is that the default css inserts a horizontal
> line at the top of the footer div, and putting an empty footer on these
> other pages looks a bit weird. Any idea how to get around that?
> --[[Joey]]

>> Sorry I didn't see that. It definitely looks weird. We could add text  
>> in all footers or change the CSS stylesheet, but it's not clean IMHO.

>> The idea was about to ease themeing by giving all the pages the same
>> structure. The current structure is the following one:

>> div header - div actions ... div content - div footer (sometimes)

>> So we could add some new divs in all templates. By default, they will  
>> be empty and no CSS will be defined for them. This way ikiwiki
>> standard appearance is not changed but themeing will be eased.
>> The new page structure could be:

>> * div banner (to show up a logo for example)

>> * div content-wrap containing div header, div actions, ... div content
>> and div footer

>> * div realfooter (to put credits, "Powered by ikiwiki", "Valid XHTML"...)

>> From my tests, it works: Just adding the divs, without touching the stylesheet,
>> doesn't change ikiwiki appearance. And themeing is eased :-)

>> I can update the patch, if you want to follow and test this idea. --Fred

This patch is against current svn.

	Index: templates/recentchanges.tmpl
	===================================================================
	--- templates/recentchanges.tmpl        (révision 3543)
	+++ templates/recentchanges.tmpl        (copie de travail)
	@@ -64,6 +64,8 @@
	 </div>
	 
	 <!-- from <TMPL_VAR NAME=WIKINAME> -->
	+<div id="footer">
	+</div>
	 
	 </body>
	 </html>
	Index: templates/editpage.tmpl
	===================================================================
	--- templates/editpage.tmpl     (révision 3543)
	+++ templates/editpage.tmpl     (copie de travail)
	@@ -86,5 +86,7 @@
	 <TMPL_VAR PAGE_PREVIEW>
	 </div>
	 </TMPL_IF>
	+<div id="footer">
	+</div>
	 </body>
	 </html>
	Index: templates/misc.tmpl
	===================================================================
	--- templates/misc.tmpl (révision 3543)
	+++ templates/misc.tmpl (copie de travail)
	@@ -22,6 +22,8 @@
 	<div id="content">
	 <TMPL_VAR PAGEBODY>
	 </div>
	+<div id="footer">
	+</div>
	 
	 </body>
	 </html>
