I'm using the aggregate plugin (which is wonderful, thanks!) at this URL http://adam.shand.net/blog/planet/

When I run ikiwiki with "--aggregate" I get this error:

    ronin(adam)$ /usr/bin/ikiwiki --setup ~adam/.ikiwiki/asni.setup --aggregategate
    successfully generated /var/www/adam.shand.net/iki.cgi
    Use of uninitialized value in subroutine entry at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/aggregate.pm line 414.
    Use of uninitialized value in subroutine entry at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/aggregate.pm line 414.
    Use of uninitialized value in subroutine entry at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/aggregate.pm line 414.
    Use of uninitialized value in subroutine entry at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/aggregate.pm line 414.
    Use of uninitialized value in subroutine entry at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/aggregate.pm line 414.
    Use of uninitialized value in subroutine entry at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/aggregate.pm line 414.
    Use of uninitialized value in subroutine entry at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/aggregate.pm line 414.
    Use of uninitialized value in subroutine entry at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/aggregate.pm line 414.

> Fixed, this occurred when a feed did not include any body content tag.
> --[[Joey]]

Also, feeds from DokuWiki seem to crash the aggregate plugin completely,
it's not a completely valid feed but presumably crashing is still bad.  The
feed I'm seeing this with is http://www.wirelesscommons.org/feed.php

> This is a bug in XML::Parser. Unfortunately, perl does not have a feed
> parser that handles invalid feeds, and in particular, XML::Parser has
> issues with feeds that claim to be encoded in utf-8 and contain invalid
> utf sequences, as well as other encoding issues. See also [[!debbug 380426]].
> Note though that this invalid feed does not really crash the aggregate plugin,
> it just notes that XML::Parser crashed on it and continues. This is the
> best I can do in ikiwiki. I have filed a bug on XML::Parser about this,
> it's [[!debbug 420636]].  I've also put in a workaround, so [[done]].

**Wonderful**, thanks Joey! -- Adam.

    -- System Information:
    Debian Release: 3.1
      APT prefers testing
      APT policy: (650, 'testing')
    Architecture: i386 (i686)
    Kernel: Linux 2.4.25-1um
    Locale: LANG=C, LC_CTYPE=C (charmap=ANSI_X3.4-1968)

    Versions of packages ikiwiki depends on:
    ii  gcc [c-compiler]             4:3.3.5-3   The GNU C compiler
    ii  gcc-2.95 [c-compiler]        1:2.95.4-22 The GNU C compiler
    ii  gcc-3.3 [c-compiler]         1:3.3.5-13  The GNU C compiler
    ii  libc6-dev [libc-dev]         2.3.6-7     GNU C Library: Development Librari
    ii  libcgi-formbuilder-perl      3.03.01-1   Easily generate and process statef
    ii  libcgi-session-perl          4.14-1      Persistent session data in CGI app
    ii  libhtml-parser-perl          3.45-2      A collection of modules that parse
    ii  libhtml-scrubber-perl        0.08-3      Perl extension for scrubbing/sanit
    ii  libhtml-template-perl        2.8-1       HTML::Template : A module for usin
    ii  libmail-sendmail-perl        0.79-1      Send email from a perl script
    ii  libtime-duration-perl        1.02-1      Time::Duration -- rounded or exact
    ii  libtimedate-perl             1.1600-4    Time and date functions for Perl
    ii  liburi-perl                  1.35-1      Manipulates and accesses URI strin
    ii  libxml-simple-perl           2.14-5      Perl module for reading and writin
    ii  markdown                     1.0.1-3     Text-to-HTML conversion tool
    ii  perl                         5.8.8-6.1   Larry Wall's Practical Extraction


Cheers,
--[[AdamShand]]
