<strong>Solved - see Buo's suggestion below</strong>

I'm using ikiwiki on a shell account/hosting site where I can build but have no root privileges. I went to build 2.49 last night, but make fails with the following error:

<pre><code>/home/telemachus/bin/perl -Iblib/lib   ikiwiki.out -libdir . -setup docwiki.setup -refresh
docwiki.setup: Failed to load plugin IkiWiki::Plugin::inline: Too many arguments for IkiWiki::htmlize at IkiWiki/Plugin/inline.pm line 359, near "))"
Compilation failed in require at (eval 14) line 2.
BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at (eval 14) line 2.

BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at (eval 10) line 21.

make: *** [extra_build] Error 255</code></pre>

I looked at that patch of inline.pm, but nothing obvious jumped out at me, and I'm reluctant to tinker with it on my own. Other details that may be useful:

* perl is 5.10.0 (built myself on the account, rather than the system perl)
* The host system is Debian Etch
* Kernel is a custom 2.6.16-xen kernel
* Gcc 4.1.2

Any thoughts or suggestions are appreciated. Thanks.

> See this report: [[2.45_Compilation_error]]

> I don't know if this is the same problem you're seeing, but it looks similar.
> The issue is unresolved AFAICT, but I haven't had a chance to try 2.49 yet.

> The only workaround I've found is to completely remove any previous ikiwiki
> installation that might be present on the system. --Buo

Thanks, Buo. I removed the traces of the previous ikiwiki, and I was able to install. No luck getting the new search plugin to work, but we'll leave that for another day. Thanks again.

Quick follow-up: 2.50 compiled and installed without a hitch. Just thought I would mention it...

> [[closing|done]] as a duplicate of [[2.45_Compilation_error]]
