I have a problem where pages within the rendered wiki become empty.  The
headers, footers, and sidepanel are there, but the body is completely
missing.  If I do a webedit and change anything (adding whitespace is
enough) and commiting the change updates the page and the body appears.  If
I then do a rebuild of the wiki from the command line, I get the blank
pages again.  I have debug turned up but I don't see anything that makes me
suspect anything.  When I do a rebuild from the command line I get the
following warning.

>Use of uninitialized value in substitution (s///) at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/inline.pm line 234.

The odd thing is that I have 5 other wikis on this same system and none of
them seem to be experiencing the same problems.  The only difference seems
to be the use of sidebars and google calendar in the affected wiki.  

> Could you post a tarball of the wiki and any setup file you use somewhere
> so I can try to reproduce your problem? --[[Joey]]
>>[The Wiki](http://www.lcsee.wvu.edu/~scotth/sysstaff.tar.gz) 
>> I think it has something to do with the plugin selection. --[[ScottHenson]]

>>> Ok, I built your wiki, and got no contentless pages here. I also
>>> didn't see the uninitialized value warning, which could be connected.
>>> However, I that uninitialized value come from an inline directive,
>>> and the wiki source doesn't seem to use inlining at all, so I'm confused
>>> about that. --[[Joey]]

>>>> Sorry, thats my fault.  The wiki that was having the problem had some 
>>>> information that I couldn't distribute.  So I reproduced the bug on 
>>>> another wiki and sent you that.  Those warnings don't seem to have any 
>>>> effect on the disappearing content.  Sorry for the confusion.  --[[ScottHenson]]

>>>> That's ok, but since I couldn't reproduce it with the data you sent,
>>>> I can't really fix it. --[[Joey]]

>>>>> Can you not reproduce the warning or not reproduce the disappearing 
>>>>> pages?  The warning does not seem to have anything to do with the 
>>>>> error of the disappearing pages.  --[[ScottHenson]]

>>>>>> I can't reproduce any disappearing text. --[[Joey]]

Marking this [[unreproducible|done]]. --[[Joey]]
