In my sent post (without Polish characters in title, of course ;) ) I still
can see "Discussion" link, instead of Polish "Dyskusja" link. --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

> I don't know what post you're referring to, more details please.
> --[[Joey]]

>> Sorry for the laconic bug report. I meant my blog and the post I sent
>> to it. It works exactly like your blog at bugs page and I also created it
>> for my ikiwiki users to bug reporting :)

>> So, I sent the post to my blog and I can see that "Discussion" link
>> from `inlinepage.tmpl` file is not translated to Polish. Now I hope
>> you know what I mean :) --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>> Joey, what about my bug report? ;) --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>>> Found and [[fixed|bugs/done]] --[[Joey]].

>>>>> Hm. I can't see any changes. I've builded ikiwiki 1.41 Debian package
>>>>> from the latest SVN repo sources and installed it on my machine.
>>>>> I've also rebuilded all my ikiwiki pages (`ikiwiki --setup ikiwiki.setup`).

>>>>> I added a few debug lines to changed block of code from
>>>>> `/usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki.pm` file:
>>>>>
>>>>>        open(LOG, ">>/var/log/ikiwiki.log");
>>>>>        print LOG "(1) \$config{locale}=$config{locale}\n";
>>>>>        print LOG "(1) \$ENV{LANG}=$ENV{LANG}\n";
>>>>>        if (defined $config{locale}) {
>>>>>                eval q{use POSIX};
>>>>>                error($@) if $@;
>>>>>                print LOG "(2) \$config{locale}=$config{locale}\n";
>>>>>                print LOG "(2) \$ENV{LANG}=$ENV{LANG}\n";
>>>>>                if (POSIX::setlocale(&POSIX::LC_ALL, $config{locale})) {
>>>>>                        $ENV{LANG}=$config{locale};
>>>>>                        $gettext_obj=undef;
>>>>>                        print LOG "(3) \$config{locale}=$config{locale}\n";
>>>>>                        print LOG "(3) \$ENV{LANG}=$ENV{LANG}\n";
>>>>>                }
>>>>>        }
>>>>>        close(LOG);
>>>>>
>>>>> Here is a piece of result after rebuild:
>>>>>
>>>>>        (1) $config{locale}=pl_PL.UTF-8
>>>>>        (1) $ENV{LANG}=pl_PL.UTF-8
>>>>>        (2) $config{locale}=pl_PL.UTF-8
>>>>>        (2) $ENV{LANG}=pl_PL.UTF-8
>>>>>        (3) $config{locale}=pl_PL.UTF-8
>>>>>        (3) $ENV{LANG}=pl_PL.UTF-8
>>>>>
>>>>> Is it a useful information for you? :) --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>>>>> Not really.. I was able to reproduce the problem you desciribed and
>>>>>> my changes fixed the problem I reproduced. --[[Joey]]

> Found and fixed one more, when per-post discussion links are used in a
> blog. --[[Joey]]

>> Yes, now it's fixed :) Thank you very much, Joey!

>> BTW, what about translating buttons to editing page ("Save Page",
>> "Preview" and "Cancel")? There are still hard-coded :( --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>> Those come via the formbuilder form, and currently my best plan for
>>> them is to add templates for them, as described in [[translation]]
>>> --[[Joey]]
