I keep getting:

	Error: Your login session has expired.

Whilst trying to edit http://hugh.vm.bytemark.co.uk/ikiwiki.cgi via OpenID. Any ideas?


	iki@hugh:~$ dpkg -l | grep openid
	ii  libnet-openid-consumer-perl     0.14-4                library for consumers of OpenID iden
	tities
	iki@hugh:~$

> This error occurs if ikiwiki sees something that looks like a CSRF
> attack. It checks for such an attack by embedding your session id on the
> page edit form, and comparing that id with the session id used to post
> the form.
> 
> So, somehow your session id has changed between opening the edit form and
> posting it. A few ways this could happen:
> 
> * Genuine CSRF attack (unlikely)
> * If you logged out and back in, in another tab, while the edit form was
>   open.
> * If `.ikiwiki/sessions.db` was deleted/corrupted while you were in the
>   midst of the edit.
> * If some bug in CGI::Session caused your session not to be saved to the
>   database somehow.
> * If your browser didn't preserve the session cookie across the edit
>   process, for whatever local reason.
> * If you were using a modified version of `editpage.tmpl`, and 
>   it did not include `FIELD-SID`.
> * If you upgraded from an old version of ikiwiki, before `FIELD-SID` was
>   added (<= 2.41), and had an edit form open from that old version, and
>   tried to save it using the new.
>  
> I don't see the problem editing the sandbox there myself, FWIW.
> (BTW, shouldn't you enable the meta plugin so RecentChanges displays
> better?)
> --[[joey]]


Thanks for you excellent analysis. The bug was due to old pre-3.0 **templates** laying about. After deleting them, ikiwiki defaults to its own templates. Clever. :-)

[[bugs/done]]
