I can't translate "Discussion" link in `templates/inlinepage.tmpl`
and `templates/page.tmpl` files, because it's hardcoded in
ikiwiki sources:

    ptecza@horus:~/svn/ikiwiki$ rgrep -i DISCUSSIONLINK . |grep -v '.svn'
    ./templates/inlinepage.tmpl:<TMPL_IF NAME="DISCUSSIONLINK">
    ./templates/inlinepage.tmpl:<li><TMPL_VAR DISCUSSIONLINK></li>
    ./templates/page.tmpl:<TMPL_IF NAME="DISCUSSIONLINK">
    ./templates/page.tmpl:<li><TMPL_VAR DISCUSSIONLINK><br /></li>
    ./IkiWiki/Plugin/inline.pm:                                     $template->param(discussionlink => htmllink($page, $params{page}, "Discussion", 1, 1));
    ./IkiWiki/Render.pm:            $template->param(discussionlink => htmllink($page, $page, "Discussion", 1, 1));

I hope it's a bug, not a feature, because I don't have the same
problem with other links, for example "Edit", "RecentChanges"
or "History". --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

> There are good reasons for feeding a full html link into the template,
> rather than the urls used for the other links. For one, the Discussion
> link needs to be different if the Discussion page doesn't yet exist.

>> You can always use `<tmpl_if>` and `<tmpl_else>` construct in that place ;) --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>> Not without duplicating the logic that constructs a link to an
>>> existing/nonexisting page in two places, one in code in ikiwiki and one
>>> in the template. Not good design. --[[Joey]]
 
> As noted in [[todo/l10n]], there are some other places in ikiwiki
> that hard code English strings, and I feel that using standard gettext
> and po files is the best approach for these, although Recai suggested an
> approach of translating the strings using a template file. --[[Joey]]

>> You know that I rather prefer static templates, but it's your choice,
>> of course.
>> 
>> BTW, is there a chance for configurable name of Discussion page?
>> In my wiki I use only Polish name of pages, so I would like to have
>> dyskusja.html page, instead of discussion.html page. --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>> Ikiwiki is now fully internationalised, so you can change the name of
>>> the Discussion page and quite a lot more (but hardly everything) by
>>> translating it. [[bugs/done]]! There's a `po/debconf.pot` in the source
>>> now for translating. See [[translation]]. --[[Joey]]

>>>> Joey, you're great! ;) Thanks a lot! I'll try ikiwiki l10n stuff soon. --[[Paweł|ptecza]]
