I have a mobile setup of ikiwiki.

* On my server, I set up an ikiwiki + svn
* On my laptop, I did a check out of the svn and used it as the src of a local ikiwiki (local apache server)

I wanted to be able to change my wiki off line with cgi only, and just commit as I come back online.

During the laptop setup, I think that the setup was confused by the fact that my src directory is a versionned one.
I had to setup explicitely rcs => "" to force it to work the way I wanted.

Should it be documented ?

>> `rcs => ""` is only needed with ikiwiki before version 1.37. As of 1.37,
>> you have to manually enable a `rcs => "svn"` etc to get it to use a
>> revision control system. So no, I don't need to document the `rcs => ""`
>> thing. --[[Joey]]

> after some tests, the main trouble with this setup is that it won't make the "svn add" for the new files.
> I wonder what should be the setup if I want to use ikiwiki off line on the laptop and then commit back the changes, 
> without having to take care of the new files before svn commit-ting...
> --hb (hugues)

>> Hi. It sounds like you want a distributed RCS, where you can branch and commit changes locally and periodically
>> push changes back. What I do is use svk, which is a distributed RCS based on svn, edit using text editors on my
>> laptop, and periodically `svk push` up to the server, which triggers a rebuild on the server. I think [[Joey]] 
>> works this way too, but I'm not sure. If you don't like editing pages "by hand" then maybe you should look at
>> [[rcs/git]] or [[rcs/mercurial]] -- they should theoretically allow you to run apache on a working copy which is itself
>> a branch of a working copy running on another machine, but I haven't used them so I don't know. --Ethan

>>> Well, by hand editing is just what I'm making sometime. it's just using subversion, in fact.
>>> But, yes, someone told me about git, which seems to allow what you are describing. In fact, my needs are typically
>>> that I want to have 2 ikiwiki web-frontend on two (or more) different machines, with one machine sometimes off-line.
>>> Imagine a team of auditor that want to report and collaborate on a wiki, but are not allways connected.

>>>> I don't use svk, I just let the ikwiki on my laptop update a source
>>>> directory that's a subversion checkout, and I manually commit changes
>>>> back to the central wiki using svn. Yes, this does include manually
>>>> adding new files. It would be possible to hack the svn module so that it
>>>> added new files, but did not ever try to commit. Maybe call that a halfsvn
>>>> module or something.
>>>>
>>>> Of course git may be a better fit. It would also be possible to add
>>>> svk support to ikiwiki, although I've not done it yet. --[[Joey]]

Looks like this is not really a bug, so I'm considering it [[bugs/done]]..
--[[Joey]]
