Hi, I try to make an example to reproduce some bug with inline and toc plugins.
My friend uses

    \[[!inline pages="users/joey" raw="yes"]]

to include common snippets in various pages, and it works as advertised, but if toc plugin is used, page is messed up.

I'll try here to reproduce one example...

You can see that wikilink is rendered in one line and 'here's paragraph' is not a separate paragraph.

All this is displayed correctly if toc is removed.

> Thanks for the clear explanation and example. This is a bug in markdown.
> Version 1.0.1 gets confused by the toc div, which is followed by a few
> lines of markdown, and then by a second div for the inlined page. It
> doesn't convert the markdown in the middle to html.
> 
> I've tested with markdown 1.0.2 and it seems to render this ok. 1.0.2 has
> a much improved parser, which is known to fix several block-related
> problems, including this one. It is currently packaged in experimental in
> Debian, and I suggest you give it a try if you're experiencing this
> problem.
> 
> (Actually, this seems closely related to the problem described
> [here](http://bugs.debian.org/421843).
> 
> I'm going to close this bug report since it's a markdown bug. --[[Joey]]
[[!tag done]]

>> thanks, that fixes it.


TEST1
=====

TEST2
-----

bla bla bla

 * bl bla
 * aadsd

[[!toc levels=2]]

bla bla

[[!table data="""
Customer|Amount
Fulanito|134,34
Menganito|234,56
Menganito|234,56
"""]]


[[wikilink|users]]

Here's a paragraph.


[[!inline pages="users/joey" raw="yes"]]

bla bla
