Joey, please see RecentChanges and note that this is my second bug report,
because the first was unsuccessfully (bad characters in post title?).
Could you please tidy it up?

> I've fixed that and the bug that caused the dup.

>> Thanks a lot! :)

I've just upgraded my ikiwiki from version 2.11 to the latest version 2.15.
I use my own rebuilt ikiwiki package for Ubuntu Gutsy box. Now I can't rebuild
all my ikiwiki pages, because of the following bug:

    ptecza@anahaim:~/blog$ ikiwiki --setup ikiwiki.setup --getctime --verbose
    [...]
    scanning post/2007/12/09/pink-freud-w-cafe-kulturalna.mdwn
    ikiwiki.setup: Insecure dependency in mkdir while running with -T switch at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki.pm line 355.
    BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at (eval 5) line 151.

I have a write permission to the ikiwiki destination directory:

    ptecza@anahaim:~/blog$ ls -ld /var/www/blog/
    drwxr-xr-x 2 ptecza ptecza 4096 2007-12-17 10:48 /var/www/blog/

I've read ikiwiki changelog for the previous releases and unfortunately
I can't see any related entries. Any ideas?

--[[Paweł|ptecza]]

> **Update**: I've came back to ikiwiki 2.11 and... the bug still exists!
> Probably the reason is that I've removed all content of `/var/www/blog/`
> before mass rebuilding. --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

> I can't reproduce this bug with a setup file that tells ikiwiki to
> write to /var/www/blog, which doesn't exist. I get a "Permission denied"
> since I can't write to /var/www. If I make the permissions allow me to
> write to /var/www, it happily creates the blog subdirectory. If the blog
> subdirectory is already there and I can write to it, that of course also
> works.
> 
> I'll need enough information to reproduce the problem before I can fix
> it. Probably a copy of your setup file, wiki source, and information
> about how your /var/www is set up. --[[Joey]]

>> Thanks for your efforts, Joey! I sent my `ikiwiki.setup` file to you.
>> What source do you need? Entire my ikiwiki or only some pages?
>>
>> There are settings of `/var/www/` directory on my Ubuntu Gutsy box:
>>
>>        ptecza@anahaim:~$ ls -al /var/www/
>>        total 16
>>        drwxr-xr-x  4 root   root   4096 2007-11-06 16:25 .
>>        drwxr-xr-x 14 root   root   4096 2007-11-06 16:13 ..
>>        drwxr-xr-x  2 root   root   4096 2007-11-06 16:13 apache2-default
>>        drwxr-xr-x  5 ptecza ptecza 4096 2007-12-17 16:54 blog
>>
>> --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>> I need a set of files that you know I can use to reproduce the bug.
>> --[[Joey]]

>>> OK, I've just sent you the URL where you can find all files you need :)
>>>
>>> Probably I know how to reproduce the bug. You have to erase all files from
>>> `/var/www/blog` before mass rebuilding. This is my `mass-rebuild.sh` script:
>>>
>>>        #!/bin/bash
>>>        
>>>        rm -rf /var/www/blog/*
>>>        ikiwiki --setup ikiwiki.setup --getctime --verbose
>>>
>>> I noticed that the bug was "resolved" when I added to my blog new entry
>>> and commited the changes. Before I created all directories and touched
>>> empty `*.html` files in `/var/www/blog` directory. Probably it's not
>>> necessary, because without a new blog revision the bug still existed
>>> and `ikiwiki` still failed.
>>>
>>> --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>> I'd forgotten about [this perl bug](http://bugs.debian.org/411786).
>> All I can do is work around it by disabling the taint checking. :-(
>> (Which I've [[done]].) --[[Joey]]

>>> Ubuntu Gutsy also has Perl 5.8.8-7, so probably it has the bug too.
>>> --[[Paweł|ptecza]]
