dunno if it just me, but I had to add PREFIX a few places to get 'perl INSTALL_BASE=$HOME' to work

> That will cause the files to be installed into a place that ikiwiki
> doesn't look for them. It will also cause them to be installed into
> /usr/etc by default, where ikiwiki also won't find them. 
> 
> Thomas Keller also ran into some sort of problem with the MacPort
> involving the installation into /etc. From that discussion:
> 
> Both ikiwiki-update-wikilist and ikiwiki-mass-rebuild hardcode /etc; so
> do several pages in the doc wiki.
> 
> The real problem though is that MakeMaker does not have a standard way
> of specifying where /etc files go. In Debian we want everything to go
> into /usr, rather than the default /usr/local, so set PREFIX=/usr -- but
> we still want config files in /etc, not /usr/etc. The only way I can see
> around this is to add a nonstandard variable to control the location of
> /etc, that would override the PREFIX.
> 
> Which implies that you can't just use "$installdir/etc/" in the /etc
> hardcoding scripts, and would instead need to record the new variable
> at build time, like PREFIX is recorded in $installdir.
>
> Instead, let's ignore failure of the lines. [[done]]
> 
> --[[Joey]]

<pre>
From a1e02fbdaba3725730418a837b506e713904ada5 Mon Sep 17 00:00:00 2001
From: David Bremner <bremner@pivot.cs.unb.ca>
Date: Fri, 29 Aug 2008 15:18:24 -0300
Subject: [PATCH] add missing $(PREFIX) to install path

---
 Makefile.PL |    6 +++---
 1 files changed, 3 insertions(+), 3 deletions(-)

diff --git a/Makefile.PL b/Makefile.PL
index 979483c..1f27394 100755
--- a/Makefile.PL
+++ b/Makefile.PL
@@ -50,9 +50,9 @@ extra_clean:
        $(MAKE) -C po clean

 extra_install:
-       install -d $(DESTDIR)/etc/ikiwiki
-       install -m 0644 wikilist $(DESTDIR)/etc/ikiwiki
-       install -m 0644 auto.setup $(DESTDIR)/etc/ikiwiki
+       install -d $(DESTDIR)$(PREFIX)/etc/ikiwiki
+       install -m 0644 wikilist $(DESTDIR)$(PREFIX)/etc/ikiwiki
+       install -m 0644 auto.setup $(DESTDIR)$(PREFIX)/etc/ikiwiki

        install -d $(DESTDIR)$(PREFIX)/share/ikiwiki
        for dir in `cd underlays && find . -follow -type d ! -regex '.*\.svn.*'`; do \
--
1.5.6.3
</pre>
