If the Markdown module is installed via CPAN rather than apt then
the module is actually Text::Markdown.

I had to edit the source to change this on my old server. I have filed
a [bug](http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=387687) against
the Debian markdown, which I guess you can consider a blocking bug of this.

I tried to come up with the magical invocation to allow either location 
to be used by ikiwiki, but I couldn't do it.

-- [[JamesWestby]]

Fixed, I think --[[Joey]]

> Fraid not. The import works ok, but I get
     `Undefined subroutine &Markdown::Markdown called at IkiWiki/Plugin/mdwn.pm line 41.`
> This is what stumped me, I was trying to import as an alias, but couldn't work
> out how to do it. A flag if you use the second import would be an ugly solution.
> -- [[JamesWestby]]

Ok, the markdown in CPAN must be an entirely different version then if it
doesn't has a Markdown::Markdown. Interesting, I'll have a look at it.
--[[Joey]]

> It works if you use Text::Markdown::Markdown, sorry, I forgot to mention that.
> --JamesWestby

I think what I've committed now will work in all cases. Well, unless there
are even more forks of markdown out there (the CPAN module is a fork
apparently...) 

 --[[Joey]]

> It now compiles here, thanks. --JamesWestby

> It's back open in the latest incarnation of Text::Markdown ... the fix is to use the
> lowercase function name (Text::Markdown::markdown) however w/ this setup 
> it causes a segfault on my system.... down while compiling

    todo/calendar_--_archive_browsing_via_a_calendar_frontend.mdwn
    *** glibc detected *** double free or corruption (!prev): 0x08bced80 ***

 -- [[harningt]]

> What version of Text::Markdown are you referring to? If it crashes perl
> then perhaps you need to find a less evil version... --[[Joey]]

>> The patch in [[todo/Add_support_for_latest_Text::Markdown_as_found_on_CPAN]] adds support for Text::Markdown::markdown(). -- [[HenrikBrixAndersen]]
>> Doesn't fix the above double free though. Nevertheless, I think I'm going to call this [[done]] since I already added support for Text::Markdown::markdown in git earlier this week. --[[Joey]]
