Pages with multiple inline macros try to use the same URL for the RSS feed for each inline. As a result, the last inline "wins" and overwrites the other feeds on the same page.

Josh Triplett suggests that the inline macro should take a parameter for the feed basename, and refuse to generate feeds after the first one if that parameter is not specified. That sounds like a good solution to me.

> That's a reasonable fix to this longstanding bug. Autoincrementing a
> basename value would also work.
> 
> I've known about this bug since well, the day I wrote rss support, but
> I haven't seen a use case that really motivated me to take the time to
> fix it. Fixes or good motivation both accepted. :-) --[[Joey]]

> A good reason to support autoincrementing might be that it's possible
> to have a blog feed that inlines another blog feed. On purpose, or
> semi-on-accident, it happened to me:
> 
> <http://kitenet.net/~joey/code/whatsnew/>
> 
> The result was that my whatsnew feed actually contains my Words2Nums
> feed, or something. --[[joey]]

> I've implemented autoincrementing unique feeds, the first one on a page
> is a .rss, next is .rss2, etc.
> 
> There may be room for manual specification of feed basenames, but it is tricky to do that
> well. One problem is that if page foo adds a feed with basename bar,
> the resulting "foo_bar.rss" would have the same name as a feed for page
> foo_bar. (Assuming usedirs is not set.) This is also why I stuck the
> number on the end of the filename extension -- it's slightly ugly, but
> it avoids all such naming ambiguities.
> 
> Anyway, I think this is [[done]] --[[Joey]]
