Logged in and edited in textbox. Clicked preview and then clicked Save Page and it errored with:

Error: Your login session has expired.

I also did same without preview and got same error.

I added debugging to print the sid and session->id on the error. The sid was empty. The session->id was a long value (maybe base64).

View source of editing page or preview+edit page shows no "sid" input value. (I do see it when editing here in your ikiwiki site, but not on mine.)

> Further info. In the "prefs" dialog, it does have hidden "sid" defined. Viewing HTML source also shows this is in the  fb_hidden class and Generated by CGI::FormBuilder v3.0501. I tried multiple times and never see "sid" in the HTML source of editing a page. --[[JeremyReed]]

>> Found problem: Needed to update my editpage.tmpl to add TMPL_VAR FIELD-SID. This bug can be closed once that is documented -- and that documentation is obvious to find.

>>> Whenever you choose to locally copy an ikiwiki template and modify it,
>>> it's really up to you to keep it up-to-date. I did consider adding a
>>> new item about this rather than just mentioning it in the changelog,
>>> since I knew it would break locally modified templates -- but I've
>>> never documented template changes in the news file before, and most of
>>> them do lead to breakage of one kind or another if a locally modified
>>> template is not kept up-to-date. I don't think that bloating the news
>>> file with mentions of every single change to every template file would
>>> be a win. --[[Joey]]

>>>> I should have mentioned: yes, I already read the recent CHANGELOG
>>>> entries. If it (like changes for 2.42) had indicated this was a
>>>> template change, I would have known and wouldn't have filed the bug.
>>>> Also maybe the manpage for ikiwiki can mention about local template
>>>> modifications (I can fix that if not done.)

> Perhaps what I should do is put in a template version check. --[[Joey]]

	<TMPL_UNLESS IKIWIKI_TEMPLATE_REVISION_20080428>
	<p><b>This template is not up-to-date with the installed version of
	ikiwiki, and may not behave correctly until updated.</b></p>
	</TMPL_IF>

> Well, that don't look like as good an idea today.. I've documented the
> recent template change. --[[Joey]] [[!tag done]]
