I've just upgraded my Ikiwiki to backported version 2.64 for Ubuntu Hardy
and wanted to see progress bar in action. Unfortunately, I can't see any progress.

This is my example Ikiwiki syntax:

    [[!progress percent=75]]

A here is a HTML result:

    <div class="progress">
      <div class="progress-done"></div>
    </div>

It seems that progress plugin works at all, but it's a problem with passing
progress value.

Anyone can confirm the bug? --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

> You are correct.  The above example does generate the HTML you suggest.  The
> plugin requires a % sign:

[[!progress percent="75%"]]

>  This could probably be improved.  Certainly the documentation could be. -- [[Will]]

>> Thanks for the hint, Will! I could check better the code... However, in my opinion
>> that '%' sign is confusing here and should be dropped. I hope it's clear for all
>> people that "percent" parameter passes values in percentages. --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>> [[fixed|done]] --[[Joey]]

>>> I've forgotten to add that now the HTML code is OK, but I can see only
>>> "75%" string on white background wihout any border. I need to look closer
>>> at CSS styles for the progress bar. --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>>> You need the `div.progress` and `div.progress-done` from ikiwiki's
>>>> default `style.css`. --[[Joey]]

>>>>> Thank you for the fix, Joey!

>>>>> I had `div.progress*` in the `style.css` file, but my Epiphany didn't want
>>>>> to display the progress bar... Now it's OK and I can see beautiful progress,
>>>>> though I've not changed anything. --[[Paweł|ptecza]]
