I have a strange problem with editing any page after its first SVN commit.
I'm not sure whether it's my ikiwiki backport bug or my misunderstanding
how ikiwiki works.

Assume that I have Foo page with any content and I want to put there link
to Bar page and next create the page. I do following steps:

1. Click Edit link on Foo page

2. Put the link to Bar page there and commit it by clicking "Save Page"
  button

  The Bar page is rendered correctly and now I can see ?Bar link. The URL
  in the address bar of my browser is

  http://my.host.com/wiki/foo.html?updated

3. Click ?Bar link

  Now I can see textarea for editing of page. It's empty, of course.

  The page doesn't exists in my SVN repo yet and my Apache server knows
  noting about it:

        $ find /my/ikiwiki/src/dir/ -type f -name bar.mdwn
        $ find /my/ikiwiki/dst/dir/ -type f -name bar.html

4. Add some initial content and click "Save Page" button
  to commit changes

  The Foo page also is rendered correctly and now I can see what I wrote.
  The URL in the address bar of my browser is

  http://my.host.com/wiki/bar.html?updated

  The page was added to the SVN repo and my Apache is able to serve it now:

        $ find /my/ikiwiki/src/dir/ -type f -name bar.mdwn
        /my/ikiwiki/src/dir/bar.mdwn
        $ find /my/ikiwiki/dst/dir/ -type f -name bar.html
        /my/ikiwiki/dst/dir/bar.html

5. Change the content of Bar page by clicking Edit link

  I can't do it, because the textarea is empty again. I have to run
  `ikiwiki --setup ikiwiki.setup` command by hand to rebuild the page.
  Then I can edit it.

Where is my mistake?

--[[Paweł|ptecza]]

> It's not clear which Edit link you clicked in step 5. Is it the link on
> the new page, or the old link back on page Foo that you clicked on before
> to create Bar? It would also be good to see the URL you're at in step 5.
> --[[Joey]]

>> It was Edit link on new Bar page, of course. The URL in step 5 was
>> http://my.host.com/wiki/ikiwiki.cgi?page=bar&do=edit.

>> I've forget to add in my previous post that $pagesources{$page}
>> (cgi_editpage subroutine of /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/CGI.pm file)
>> doesn't exist in step 5. It exists after rebuilding all ikiwiki
>> pages by hand.

>> BTW, where does ikiwiki store information about rendered pages?
>> Is it `/my/ikiwiki/src/dir/.ikiwiki/` directory?

>> --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>> Well, the missing %pagesources value explains the symptom for sure.
>>> ikiwiki stores its state in .ikiwiki/index, and that should include
>>> info about the new page you've created, including the source file for
>>> it, which is where the data in %pagesources comes from.
>>>
>>> It sounds to me like somehow, when you commit a change to svn by
>>> saving the page, it rebuilds the wiki, but does not update the index
>>> file. Maybe it's crashing before it can save the index file. Or maybe
>>> it's possibly be misconfigured, and updating a different index file in
>>> a different copy of the source? You should be able to figure out what's
>>> going on my looking at how the index file changes (or not) when you
>>> create the new page. --[[Joey]]

>>>> I've checked that my ikiwiki really doesn't touch `.ikiwiki/index` file
>>>> when I create and save a new page. In `error.log` file of my Apache2
>>>> server I can't see any "Permission denied" messages, but I suspect
>>>> that a reason of my problem can be the bad access permissions:

>>>>      root@my.host:/my/ikiwiki/src/dir# ls -ld .ikiwiki/
>>>>      drwxrwsr-x  2 www-data src 4096 2007-01-11 10:00 .ikiwiki/
>>>>      root@my.host:/my/ikiwiki/src/dir# cd .ikiwiki/
>>>>      root@my.host:/my/ikiwiki/src/dir/.ikiwiki# ls -l
>>>>      razem 48
>>>>      -rw-rw-r--  1 www-data src 17353 2007-01-11 10:00 index
>>>>      -rw-rw-r--  1 www-data src     0 2007-01-11 10:17 lockfile
>>>>      -rw-------  1 www-data src 24576 2007-01-11 10:17 sessions.db
>>>>      -rw-------  1 www-data src     0 2006-11-15 14:45 sessions.db.lck
>>>>      -rw-------  1 www-data src   404 2007-01-08 10:24 userdb

>>>> What do you think about it? Does it look good? My ikiwiki runs
>>>> under control of Apache2 server and it's configured to run
>>>> as `www-data` user and `www-data` group. --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>>>> It's a bit weird to run ikiwiki as www-data. This means that www-data
>>>>> can write to your subversion repository? And the svn post-commit hook
>>>>> _also_ runs as www-data? It certianly could be some permissions issue
>>>>> that is not being reported properly. --[[Joey]]

>>>>>> No, my SVN `post-commit` hook runs as `root` (uid) and `www-data` (gid).
>>>>>> Only `root` user and `src` group have write permissions to my SVN repo.

>>>>>> Could you please show me your permissions for `repodir`, `srcdir`
>>>>>> and `destdir` and how runs your Apache server? --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>>>>>> Ugh, root? My permissions setup is simple, ikiwiki runs as a single
>>>>>>> user, and that same user can commit to the svn repo and write to
>>>>>>> all files. --[[Joey]]

>>>>>>>> What's your user? Please show me result of `ls -ld dir` for
>>>>>>>> directories above :) --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>>>>>>>> All my directories are 755 joey:joey. --[[Joey]]

>>>>>>>>>> Thanks! But I have another situation: a multiuser system and a few
>>>>>>>>>> ikiwiki commiters. --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>>>>>>>>>> Joey, I think I've just fixed the permission, but my ikiwiki still
>>>>>>>>>>> doesn't update my `.ikiwiki/index` file. Could you please explain me
>>>>>>>>>>> when ikiwiki calls `saveindex()` subroutine? My ikiwiki doesn't do it
>>>>>>>>>>> when I create a new page and save it or when I update and save
>>>>>>>>>>> a existing page. It does it only when I run
>>>>>>>>>>> `ikiwiki --setup ikiwiki.setup` and I'm desperated...

>>>>>>>>>>> BTW, where should I store my `ikiwiki.setup` file? It must be placed
>>>>>>>>>>> under `$srcdir/.ikiwiki/` directory or it doesn't matter?
>>>>>>>>>>> Does `ikiwiki.cgi` wrapper know where the `ikiwiki.setup` file
>>>>>>>>>>> is stored? --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

Sorry I am not indenting for my reply (in my browser the responses are very narrow.)

I also had problem with no webpages getting generated via the CGI unless I ran ikiwiki to regen manually.
I can't find the discussion here about in the ikiwiki website though. I think it was removed and now I can't find it in the history.
My problem was caused by not having a revision system defined, so it defaulted to subversion (but I didn't have that installed).

> Note that that confusing default to svn has been changed.. And you're
> right about how the setup file is used below, BTW. --[[Joey]]

As for your .setup file you can put it anywhere. I don't  think the CGI knows where it is at because its settings are set in the "wrapper".
In my case, my setup file is in a different home and owned by a different user than the CGI or my generated website. By the way, I also don't keep my .ikiwiki private directory in my source directory by setting wikistatedir (which doesn't seem to be documented).

--[[JeremyReed]]

> Never mind about indentation, Jeremy! :) Thanks a lot you're interested in
> my problem and you try to help me.

> I use RCS backend and store my ikiwiki sources in SVN repo. Here is my SVN
> related settings:
>
>        rcs => "svn",
>        svnrepo => "/var/lib/svn/ikiwiki",
>        svnpath => "trunk/pages",
>
> I've noticed the following piece of code in `/usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/CGI.pm`
> file (`cgi_editpage()` subroutine):
>
>        # save page
>        page_locked($page, $session);
>
>        my $content=$form->field('editcontent');
>
>        $content=~s/\r\n/\n/g;
>        $content=~s/\r/\n/g;
>        writefile($file, $config{srcdir}, $content);
>
>        if ($config{rcs}) {
>                # Here is RCS stuff
>                # ...
>        }
>        else {
>                require IkiWiki::Render;
>                refresh();
>                saveindex();
>        }
>
>        # The trailing question mark tries to avoid broken
>        # caches and get the most recent version of the page.
>        redirect($q, "$config{url}/".htmlpage($page)."?updated");
>
> As you can see ikiwiki calls `saveindex()` subroutine if `rcs` variable
> is not defined. I don't understand it, because in this way ikiwiki
> doesn't update my `.ikiwiki/index` file. Joey, could you please
> enlight me here ;)
>
> BTW, I also noticed `wikistatedir` variable in the ikiwiki code
> and I couldn't find any information about it in ikiwiki docs :) --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>> wikistatedir is a non-configurable internal value.
>> 
>> What happens during an edit with the code you quoted is that the "rcs
>> stuff" results in a commit of the page to svn. This results in the
>> ikiwiki svn post-commit hook running. The post-commit hook updates the
>> wiki, and calls saveindex. That's why it's not called in the RCS path in
>> the code above.
>> 
>> It sounds like your post-commit hook is still not set up, or is failing
>> for some reason (permissions perhaps?) --[[Joey]]

>>> OK, [[bugs/done]]! It was problem with permissions and not upgraded
>>> `editpage.tmpl` template :) --[[Paweł|ptecza]]