In ikiwiki 2.66, SVG images are not recognized as images. In ikiwiki.pm,
the hardcoded list of image file extensions does not include ".svg", which
it probably should unless there's some other issue about rendering SVGs?

The 'img' plugin also seems to not support SVGs.

> SVG images can only be included via an `<object>`, `<embed>`, or
> `<iframe>` tag. Or, perhaps as [inline SVG](http://wiki.svg.org/Inline_SVG). 
> The [[plugins/htmlscrubber]] strips all three tags since they can easily
> be used maliciously. If doing inline SVG, I'd worry that the svg file
> could be malformed and mess up the html, or even inject javascript. So,
> the only options seem to be only supporting svgs on wikis that do not
> sanitize their html, or assuming that svgs are trusted content and
> embedding them inline. None of which seem particularly palatable.
> 
> I suppose the other option would be converting the svg file to a static
> image (png). The img plugin could probably do that fairly simply.
> --[[Joey]]

>> I'm working on inline SVG and MathML support in ikiwiki and I've
>> modified my htmlscrubber to sanitize SVG and MathML using the
>> whitelists from html5lib.  Here's a [patch][].  I've also made some
>> notes about this here: [[todo/svg]].
>> 
>> I suspect that this bug may have caught the eye of anyone interested
>> in this sort of thing.  I'll elaborate a bit on my user page to avoid
>> getting off-topic here. --[[JasonBlevins]], October 21, 2008

 [patch]: http://xbeta.org/gitweb/?p=xbeta/ikiwiki.git;a=blobdiff;f=IkiWiki/Plugin/htmlscrubber.pm;h=3c0ddc8f25bd8cb863634a9d54b40e299e60f7df;hp=3bdaccea119ec0e1b289a0da2f6d90e2219b8d66;hb=fe333c8e5b4a5f374a059596ee698dacd755182d;hpb=be0b4f603f918444b906e42825908ddac78b7073
