I'm using the tags plugin with tagbase="tags".

Already existing tags, corresponding to pages like tags/foo.html work just
fine.

If I add to a page a tag which is not existing (e.g. with [[!tag newtag]])
the just modified page will have a link which point to tags/newtag. This is
in theory correct, but in practice leads to creating a tags/newtag subpage
of the page I'm editing, while my tagbase is supposed to be relative to the
wiki root.

When used in a wiki which already have some tags this leads to mixing up
tags located in tags/ and tags located in whatever/tags/.

> When a new page is being edited, ikiwiki lets you chose where the page
> will be created, so you'll get a dropdown list of possible locations for
> the tag page. You should be able to choose between either tags/foo or
> page/tags/foo.
>
> The way that ikiwiki decides which location to default to in this box is
> fairly involved; but in general it will default to creating the page at
> the same level as the tagged page. So if the tag is on any toplevel page
> in the wiki, it will default to creating `tags/foo`; if the tag is on a
> page in a subdirectory, it will default to creating subdir/tags/foo.
>
> I personally like this behavior; it allows me to create a subdirectory
> for a particular thing and use tags that are specific to that thing,
> which are kept confined to that subdirectory by default. For example,
> this is used for ikiwiki's own plugins tags, which are all located
> under plugins/type/* and which apply to pages under plugins/*.
>
> It's clearly not the right default for every situation though. Explcitly
> setting a tagbase probably lessons the likelyhood that it's the right
> default for things under that tag base. I'd not be opposed to adding a
> special case to change the default in this case, or adding a
> configuration option to change the default globally. On the other hand,
> it is pretty simple to just check the location and select the right one
> from the list when creating a new page..
> 
> --[[Joey]]

> And, this is [[done]], creating tags with tagbase will put them under the
> tagbase, unless the tag name starts with "/". --[[Joey]]
