When you click on a broken link to create a new page, Ikiwiki lower-cases the new page's filename.  I wish it wouldn't.

If I click on "Czars in Russia", I'd like Ikiwiki to create "Czars\_in\_Russia.mdwn", not "czars\_in\_russia.mdwn".  Is this possible?  --[[sabr]]

> There's a simple patch that can do this:

> --- a/IkiWiki.pm
> +++ b/IkiWiki.pm
> @@ -584,7 +584,7 @@ sub htmllink ($$$;@) {
>  			return "<span class=\"createlink\"><a href=\"".
>  				cgiurl(
>  					do => "create",
> -					page => pagetitle(lc($link), 1),
> +					page => pagetitle($link, 1),
>  					from => $lpage
>  				).
>  				"\">?</a>$linktext</span>"

> This is fine if you don't mind mixed or randomly cased filenames getting
> created. Otoh, if the link happened to start a sentence and so had its
> first letter upper-cased, that might not be desired.
> 
> Of course ikiwiki's case insensative, and there are other ways
> of creating pages that don't lower case them, including using the create
> a page form on a blog (as was done for this page..).
> 
> I'm undecided about making the above change by default though, or about making
> it a config option. Maybe it would be better to include both capitalisations
> in the select list that is used to pick the name for the newly created page.
> Then, which one is the default wouldn't much matter. (The non-lower cased
> one would probably be the best choice.) --[[Joey]]
>> Either of your proposed solutions (make it the default or include both in the pop-up menu) sounds fine to me.  Which one is easier? :) --[[sabr]]
