it appears that unicode characters in the title that are unicode letters are spared the __ filename encoding but instead saved in their utf8 encoding. (correct me if i'm wrong; didn't find the code that does this.) -- see below for examples.

> Filenames can have any alphanumerics in them without the __ escaping.
> Your locale determines whether various unicode characters are considered
> alphanumeric. In other words, it just looks at the [[:alpha:]] character
> class, whatever your locale defines it to be. --[[Joey]]

this is not a problem per se, but (at least with git backend) the recent changes missinterpret the file name character set (it seems to read the filenames as latin1) and both display wrong titles and create broken links.

the problem can be shown with an auto-setup'd ikiwiki without cgi when manually creating utf8 encoded filenames and running ikiwiki with LANG=en_GB.UTF-8 .

> Encoding issue, I figured out a fix. [[done]] --[[Joey]]

>> the link text works now, but the link goes to
>> `ikiwiki.cgi?page=uml%C3%A4ute&do=recentchanges_link`, which fails with
>> "missing page". it seems that bestlink can't handle utf8 encoded texts. (the
>> same happens, by the way, when using meta-redir to a page with high bytes in
>> the name.)
>>
>> update: i've had a look at the git options; you could run git with '-z' (NUL
>> termination) in the `git_commit_info` function; this would require some
>> changes in `parse_diff_tree`, but otherwise completely eliminate the
>> problems with git escaping.
>> 
>> --[[chrysn]]
