[[!meta title="Weird interaction between toc plugin and markdown that follows"]]

<http://vcs-pkg.org/people/> goes really weird when I enable the `toc` plugin. It renders the page sections fine without it, but as soon as I turn it on, the following output is generated:

    \[[!meta  title="My Name"]]

      1. Fedora
      2. Ubuntu
      3. People grouped by version control system
      4. GNU Arch (tla/baz)
      5. Bazaar-NG
      6. Git users
      7. Mercurial
      8. Subversion
      9. Everyone, sorted by first name

    People grouped by distro ======================== Debian ––

        * jelmer
        * madduck

    Fedora

I have no idea what's eating the first two headers. But as you can see from the current page, it's not just headers by any markdown...

--[[madduck]]

> This is a markdown bug. It occurs with 1.0.1, but not with the 1.0.2
> beta. Apparently markdown is getting confused by the div inserted for the
> toc, not realizing that it has ended, and so not marking up the text as
> markdown. 1.0.2 fixes many such div-related markdown bugs. I have to call
> this [[done]] since it's not an ikiwiki bug, recommend upgrading markdown
> if the slower speed of 1.0.2 doesn't hurt too badly. --[[Joey]]

>> Note how it works on <http://madduck.net/docs/mailfilter/> but adding a rule like in that doc to the people page didn't fix it.

>>> Yes, it's probably confused by the two divs so close to each other, and
>>> doesn't realize that the text in between is not part of either and is
>>> markdown. Problem is that the old markdown doesn't have a real html
>>> parser, it just fakes it --[[Joey]]
