ikiwiki 1.32 released with these changes:

   * Add a separate pass to find page links, and only render each page once,
     instead of over and over. Typical speedup is ~4x. Max possible speedup:
     8x.
   * Add "scan" parameter to hook(), which is used to make the hook be called
     during the scanning pass, as well as the render pass. The meta and tag
     plugins need to use the new scan parameter, so will any others that modify
     %links.
   * Now that links are calculated in a separate pass, it can also
     precalculate backlinks in one pass, which is O(N^2) instead of the
     previous code that was O(N^3). A very nice speedup for wikis with lots
     (thousands) of pages.
   * Stylish update to the ikiwiki logo, thanks to Recai Oktaş and Selçuk
     Erdem.
   * Add a default stylesheet entry for the pagecloud.
   * Add examples page with some examples of things that can be done using
     ikiwiki, like a weblog. The examples can be copied into a user's wiki
     for a quick start, without needing to learn everything about how to put
     them together.
   * Install the source of the examples into /usr/share/doc/ikiwiki/examples.
   * Add perlmagick to build-depends so syntax check of img plugin works.
     Closes: #[396702](http://bugs.debian.org/396702)
   * Improve login/register process, the login dialog has only name and
     password fields, which allows more web browsers to regognise it as a login
     field, and is less confusing.
   * Implemented expiry options for aggregate plugin.
   * Use precalculated backlinks info when determining if files need an update
     due to a page they link to being added/removed. Mostly significant if
     there are lots of pages.
   * Remove duplicate link info when saving index. In some cases it could
     pile up rather badly. (Probably not the best way to deal with this
     problem.)
   * Patch from James Westby to support podcasting, photoblogging, vidcasting,
     or what have you, by creating enclosures for non-page items that are
     included in feeds.