Ikiwiki has reached version 3.0 and entered a new phase in its
[[development_cycle|roadmap]].

The 3.0 release of ikiwiki changes several defaults and finishes
some transitions. You will need to modify your wikis to work with
ikiwiki 3.0. A document explaining the process is available
in [[tips/upgrade_to_3.0]].

The highlights of the changes in version 3.0 include:

* Support for uploading [[attachments|plugins/attachment]].
* Can [[plugins/rename]] and [[plugins/remove]] pages and files via the web.
* [[Web_based_setup|plugins/websetup]].
* Blog-style [[plugins/comments]] as an alternative to Discussion pages.
* Many other new plugins including [[plugins/htmlbalance]], [[plugins/format]],
  [[plugins/progress]], [[plugins/color]], [[plugins/autoindex]],
  [[plugins/cutpaste]], [[plugins/hnb]], [[plugins/creole]], [[plugins/txt]],
  [[plugins/amazon_s3]], [[plugins/pinger]], [[plugins/pingee]],
  [[plugins/edittemplate]]
* The RecentChanges page is compiled statically, not generated from the CGI.
* Support for additional revision control systems: [[rcs/bzr]],
  [[rcs/monotone]]
* Support for [[tips/untrusted_git_push]].
* A new version (3.00) of the plugin API, exporting additional
  commonly used functions from `IkiWiki.pm`.
* Nearly everything in ikiwiki is now a plugin, from WikiLinks to
  page editing, to RecentChanges.
* Far too many bug fixes, features, and enhancements to list here.

Thanks to the many contributors to ikiwiki 3.0, including:

  Jelmer Vernooij, Recai Oktaş, William Uther, Simon McVittie, Axel Beckert,
  Bernd Zeimetz, Gabriel McManus, Paweł Tęcza, Peter Simons, Manoj
  Srivastava, Patrick Winnertz, Jeremie Koenig, Josh Triplett, thm, Michael
  Gold, Jason Blevins, Alexandre Dupas, Henrik Brix Andersen, Thomas Keller,
  Enrico Zini, intrigeri, Scott Bronson, Brian May, Adeodato Simó, Brian
  Downing, Nis Martensen. (And anyone I missed.)

Also, thanks to the users, bug submitters, and documentation wiki editors.
Without you, ikiwiki would just be a little thing I use for my home page.

--[[Joey]]
