Ikiwiki has reached version 2.0 and entered a new phase in its
[[development_cycle|roadmap]].

With the 2.0 release of ikiwiki, some major changes have been made to the
default configuration:

* The `usedirs` setting is enabled by default. This *will* break all URLs
  to wikis that did not have `usedirs` turned on before, unless you follow
  the procedure described at [[tips/switching_to_usedirs]]
  or edit your setup file to turn `usedirs` off: `usedirs => 0,`
* [[plugins/OpenID]] logins are now enabled by default, if the
  [[!cpan Net::OpenID::Consumer]] perl module is available. Password logins
  are also still enabled by default. If you like, you can turn either OpenID
  or password logins off via the `disable_plugins` setting.

An overview of changes in the year since the 1.0 release:

* New improved URLs to pages via `usedirs`.
* [[plugins/OpenID]] support, enabled by default.
* Plugin [[interface|plugins/write]] added, with some 60 [[plugins]] available,
  greatly expanding the capabilities of ikiwiki.
* [[Tags]], atom feeds, and generally full-fledged blogging support.
* Fully working [[todo/utf8]].
* Optimisations, approximately 3.5 times as fast as version 1.0.
* Improved scalability to large numbers of pages.
* Improved scalable [[logo]].
* Support for additional revision control systems besides svn: git,
  tla, mercurial.
* Some support for other markup languages than markdown: rst, textile.
* Unit test suite, with more than 300 tests.

[[!meta date="2007-04-30 00:51:57 -0400"]]
