ikiwiki 1.4 released with these changes:

   * Tell HTML::Scrubber to treat "/" as a valid attribute which is its
     very strange way of enabling proper XHTML br type tags. Output html
     should be always valid again now.
   * The page name and parent links has switched from using a h1 to a styled
     span, so pages can use h1 internally instead of needing to use h2.
   * Updated all of ikiwiki's own wiki pages for that.
   * Add pagetemplate hook, which can be used by plugins that want to mess
     around with adding new stuff to the page template.
   * Remove headercontent; the search plugin now adds the search box to the
     header by registering a pagetemplate hook, and other plugins should do
     similarly.
   * Rebuilding on upgrade to this version is recommended.
   * Add a html validity check to the test suite, using the wdg-html-validator,
     if available.
   * Make the html valid when there is nothing in the actions list.
   * Reordered some function call parameters for consistency.
   * Enable full utf-8 support for page input and output.
   * Add a workaround for markdown, which does not work well with utf-8
     strings.
   * --getctime had bitrotted (well I only ever used it the once so far..),
     fix and make it a bit more flexible
   * rcs\_getctime is changed, now rather than needing to loop over all pages,
     it should just use the rcs to get the ctime of the passed file.
   * When inlining a page in another one, links from the inlined page are now
     expanded the same as they are when rendering the inlined page as a
     standalone page. So rather than being expanded from the POV of the
     inlining page, they are expanded from the POV of the inlined page.
     For example, a link from blog/foo to "bar" will now link to blog/bar
     if it exists. Previously this needed to be a link explicitly to
     "blog/bar"; such links will also continue to work.
     (This was slightly complex to do as the link still has to be constructed
     relative to the inlining page.)
   * Make page edit textarea resize to fit browser window.
   * Add -refresh option to ikiwiki-mass-rebuild and use that on upgrades that
     do not need a full rebuild, in order to update any basewiki pages.