News for ikiwiki 2.30:

   Ever feel that ikiwiki's handling of RecentChanges wasn't truely in the
   spirit of a wiki compiler? Well, that's changed. The RecentChanges page is
   now a static page, not a CGI. Users can subscribe to its rss/atom feeds.
   Custom RecentChanges pages can be easily set up that display only changes
   to a subset of pages, or only changes by a subset of users.
   
   All wikis need to be rebuilt on upgrade to this version. If you listed your
   wiki in /etc/ikiwiki/wikilist this will be done automatically when the
   Debian package is upgraded. Or use ikiwiki-mass-rebuild to force a rebuild.
   With this excellent new RecentChanges support, the mail notification system
   is showing its age (and known to be variously buggy and underimplemented for
   various VCSes), and so ikiwiki's support for sending commit mails is REMOVED
   from this version. If you were subscribed to commit mails, you should be
   able to accomplish the same thing by subscribing to a RecentChanges feed.

   The "svnrepo" and "notify" fields in setup files are no longer used, and
   silently ignored. You may want to remove them from your setup file.

ikiwiki 2.30 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Old versions of git-init don't support --git-dir or GIT\_DIR with
     --bare. Change ikiwiki-makerepo to use a method that should work with
     those older versions too.
   * aggregate: Don't let feeds set creation times for pages in the future.
   * Add full parser for git diff-tree output (Brian Downing)
   * aggregate: Fork a child process to handle the aggregation. This simplifies
     the code, since that process can change internal state as needed, and
     it will automatically be cleaned up for the parent process, which proceeds
     to render the changes.
 * [ Josh Triplett ]
   * Add trailing comma to commented-out umask in sample ikiwiki.setup, so
     that uncommenting it does not break the setup file.
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * inline: The template can check for FIRST and LAST, which will be
     set for the first and last inlined page. Useful for templates that build
     tables and the like.
   * prettydate,ddate: Don't ignore time formats passed to displaytime
     function.
   * Pages with extensions starting with "\_" are internal-use, and will
     not be rendered or web-edited, or matched by normal pagespecs.
   * Add "internal()" pagespec that matches internal-use pages.
   * RecentChanges is now a static html page, that's updated whenever a commit
     is made to the wiki. It's built as a blog using inline, so it can have
     an rss feed that users can subscribe to.
   * Removed support for sending commit notification mails. Along with it went
     the svnrepo and notify settings, though both will be ignored if left in
     setup files. Also gone with it is the "user()" pagespec.
   * Add refresh hook.
   * meta: Add pagespec functions to match against title, author, authorurl,
     license, and copyright. This can be used to create custom RecentChanges.
   * meta: To support the pagespec functions, metadata about pages has to be
     retained as pagestate.
   * Fix encoding bug when pagestate values contained spaces.
   * Add support for bzr, written by Jelmer Vernooij. Thanks also to bma for
     his independent work on bzr support.
   * Copyright file updates."""]]
