ikiwiki 1.5 released with these changes:

   * Add --timeformat config option to allow changing how dates are displayed.
     Note that as a side effect, dates will now be displayed using the local
     timezone, not as GMT.
   * More security review.
   * Patch from Dr. Zini to add link() and backlink() to globlists. This allows
     for some handy stuff like:
     - Using links as a kind of tag; creating blog pages that list all pages
       containing a given tag/link or not containing some other tag.
     - Subscribing to mail notifications whenever a change is made to a page
       that is a backlink of page foo. Ie, "Please notify me of changes in all
       pages that link to my home page in the wiki"
     - Locking any pages that are linked to from a particular page, so that
       lists of locks can be exposed in the wiki.
   * Reorganised the doc wiki's todo/* pages, using a link/tag to flag
     when a todo item is done, instead of the previous moving it to a different
     subdir.
   * Allow pagetemplate plugins to override *anything* in the template.
   * Add a meta plugin, which allows specifying various metadata about pages,
     like license and author. It also allows for inserting html link and meta
     tags into html, overriding the title, and adding hidden WikiLinks, which
     can be useful when using link-based globbing for page categorisation.
   * Remove preprocessor directives from inlined pages.
   * Allow simple preprocessor directive values to be specified w/o quotes.
   * Add support for using git instead of subversion as the RCS backend,
     tremendous thanks to Recai Oktaş for this.
   * Doc updates for git.
   * Fix absolute url munging in rss generation to support https, ftp, etc urls
     not just http urls.
   * Patch from Recai Oktaş to improve utf-8 support, it should now use proper
     utf-8 for edit and other fields, and for recentchanges. There may still
     be utf-8 issues with the preferences page though.