News for ikiwiki 1.49:

   Third-party plugins that use htmlpage() or abs2rel() to generate links
   may need changes to support the new "userdir" option.

ikiwiki 1.49 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Add --post-commit option, which allows for the case of a split web server
     and RCS server (or a push mirror). With this the RCS server can have a
     real post-commit hook that sshs back to the web server, and runs ikiwiki
     in post-commit mode to update the wiki.
   * Fix urls generated by mirrorlist plugin.
   * Add a templates page to the basewiki. It will automatically list all
     available templates. Rename the old templates page to wikitemplates.
   * Include the note template in the basewiki.
   * Add a popup template in the basewiki. CSS based on some by Martin Krafft.
   * Make the note, popup, and plugin templates detect missing variables and be
     self-documenting, listing the available variables.
   * Hide excess backlinks and expand using CSS trick; control quantiy via
     the numbacklinks setting.
   * Finally apply the index.html patch, with thanks to everyone who worked
     on and supported creating it (especially Tumov). This adds a "usedirs"
     option that makes ikiwiki use foo/index.html instead of foo.html as
     output page names. It is not yet enabled by default.
   * Fix a bug in the img plugin that caused thumbnailed files to not be
     tracked properly.
   * Make the OpenID library a reccommendation of the Debian package, rather
     than just a suggests, since OpenID is enabled by default.
   * Fix a bug that caused link(foo) to succeed if page foo did not exist.
   * Fix tags to page names that contain special characters.
 * [ Josh Triplett ]
   * Use pngcrush and optipng on all PNG files.
   * Add neutral smileys ":|" and ":-|", and question icon smiley "(?)",
     with images taken from phpBB (GPL) and converted with gif2png.
   * Improvements to Description in debian/control:
     * Note that some plugins have additional dependencies, found among the
       Recommends and Suggests.
     * ikiwiki supports both RSS and Atom feeds.
     * Fix typos.
   * Add Homepage field.
   * Add XS-Vcs-Browser field.
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Updated French translation from JLC. Closes: #[417982](http://bugs.debian.org/417982)
   * Reorder the icon in the template above the stylesheets, to avoid icon
     flashing during page load.
   * Fix smiley plugin to scan smileys.mdwn after it's updated, which fixes
     a bug caused by committing changes to smilies.mdwn.
   * Fix display of escaped wikilinks containing anchors.
 * [ Josh Triplett ]
   * Remove stray semicolon in linkmap.pm."""]]