ikiwiki 2.6 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
   * Various minor bug fixes for silly mistakes in the code, thanks to the
     various reviewers.
   * Fix problems with previewing in the graphviz plugin. Thanks,
     HenrikBrixAndersen.
   * Allow raw html in the rst plugin.
   * Add --set-option command line switch.
   * pagetemplate: don't display template name
   * Add rel=tag attribute to tag links, supporting that microformat, as well
     as allowing them to be styled specially. Thanks, NicolasLimare.
   * Add sessioncgi hook.
   * Move blog form code out of CGI.pm and into the inline plugin.
   * Updated Spanish translation from Victor Moral.
   * Updated French translation from Cyril Brulebois. Closes: #[437181](http://bugs.debian.org/437181)
   * The toc directive doesn't work well or make sense inside an inlined page.
     Disable it when the page with the toc is nested inside another page.
   * Apply a patch from NicolasLimare adding modification date tags to rss and
     atom feeds, and also changing the publication time for a feed to the
     newest modiciation time (was newest creation time).
   * The patch also adds dcterms:creator to rss items that have a known author.
   * Support pagespec "functions" with no parameters, like included() in the
     conditional plugin.
   * Add time=mtime option to postsparkline.
   * Fix --libdir to work at the command line.
   * Plugins can now be written as standalone external programs, which can
     be written in any language that can do XML RPC.
   * Change yet again how unhandled and escaped preprocessor directives are
     re-output onto the page. Hopefully I finally got it right..
   * Fix bug in deletion/move during edit code introduced in 1.44. Need to take
     the underlaydir into account.
   * Fix bug when editing file from underlaydir, need to rcs\_add it even though
     a page creation isn't occuring.
   * Various minor fixes and stylistic improvements suggested by Perl::Critic.
   * Applied Jeremie Koenig's pluggable editpage buttons patch:
     - add a title to the editpage form;
     - pass a reference to the list of buttons to the formbuilder\_setup
       hooks, so we can add ours;
     - relax asumption about the possible submit values (use "Save Page"
       explicitly);
     - de-hardcode the submit buttons from the editpage template
       (This was needed for compatability with a bug in CGI::FormBuilder
       3.0401, but ikiwiki already needs a newer version.)
   * Pass buttons to all other formbuilder\_setup hooks too.
   * Add color parameter to postsparkline. Closes: #[438900](http://bugs.debian.org/438900)
   * Add proper Homepage field to Debian package (needs uber-new dpkg).
   * Add monotone support, contributed by William Uther.
   * Avoid ugly gettext messages if LANG is empty. Closes: #[439035](http://bugs.debian.org/439035)
   * Added teximg plugin to generate images from latex code.
     Contributed by Patrick Winnertz as a GSoC project.
   * Call the formbuilder hook for the edit page.
   * Call decode\_form\_utf8 before running formbuilder\_setup hooks.
   * Add editdiff plugin contributed by Jeremie Koenig.
   * Fix it to not leak path info.
   * Add embed plugin, which allows embedding content from google maps, video,
     calendar, and youtube. Normally, the htmlsanitiser eats these since they
     use unsafe tags, the embed plugin overrides it for trusted sites.
   * The googlecalendar plugin is now deprecated, and will be removed
     eventually. Please switch to using the embed plugin."""]]