A special release for July 4th with many improvements.

*Upgrade notes:*

  If your wiki is configured with a setup file, you should modify it to
  stop setting the "plugin" list directly, and instead add or remove plugins
  via the add_plugins and disable_plugins lines. For example, if you had:

        plugin => [qw{inline smiley search}],

  Change it to these lines, which disables the default htmlscrubber plugin
  and adds the two additional plugins:

        add_plugins => [qw{smiley search}],
        disable_plugins => [qw{htmlscrubber}],

  Making this change makes your ikiwiki setup file more future-proof since
  new default plugins will be automatically used.

  You will need to rebuild your ikiwiki wrappers when upgrading to this
  version. If you listed your wiki in /etc/ikiwiki/wikilist this will be
  done automatically when the Debian package is upgraded. Or use
  ikiiki-mass-rebuild --refresh to force a refresh.

*Changes:*

   * Fix orphans plugin to not count a link to a nonexistant page as a reason
     for a page not being an orphan.
   * Support pinging services such as Technorati using XML-RPC to notify them
     about changes to rss feeds.
   * Parse svn log as xml for improved utf8 and security. Note that this makes
     ikiwiki depend on XML::Simple. Patch by Faidon Liambotis.
   * POSIX::strftime doesn't know about encodings and doesn't return a utf8
     flagged string even if the locale causes it to generate utf8 output,
     so make sure to let perl know it should be handled as utf8. Also,
     the optimised version used for standard time formats won't work if the
     user has changed locale, so drop it. Thanks, Faidon Liambotis.
   * Fix re-encoding of the comments field to utf8 if a commit fails
     due to a conflict. Thanks, Faidon Liambotis.
   * Let svn know that commits have utf8 commit messages. Thanks, Faidon
     Liambotis.
   * Add insane double encode/decode to utf8 around call to markdown.
     This works around a truely strange bug, which is apparently a bug in
     perl, #376329. Also added a test case for it.
   * Improve layout of edit page so formatting help link is always visible w/o
     getting in the way of the preview.
   * Centralised all calls to HTML::Template and force all the templates
     to be read as utf8.
   * Support pages with utf8 filenames. Patch by Faidon Liambotis.
   * Introduce add\_plugins and disable\_plugins config options in setup files.
     This allows adding or removing plugins w/o overriding the whole list of
     default plugins, which makes it easier to upgrade when new default plugins
     are added.
   * Support htmlize plugins and make mdwn one such plugin, which is enabled by
     default (of course!). Based on a patch by Faidon Liambotis.
   * Add a html plugin, which can be used to write wikis in raw html,
     if you'd ever want to do such a thing. Slightly tricky, since ikiwiki
     defaults to not processing .html files, since w/o this plugin they would
     be copied unsanitised. With this plugin, it will process and html
     sanitise them, like any other page type.
   * Rebuilding wrappers is necessary on upgrade to this version.
   * Make ikiwiki --setup --refresh rebuild wrappers, so wrapper rebuild
     will be automatically done on all upgrades.
   * Don't send pings if the wiki is being rebuilt.
   * Work around very innefficient behavior in File::Spec::abs2rel. Result
     is a savings of 2 pointless fork/execs per link calculation, which
     results in ~25% speedup of ikiwiki building its own doc wiki, and
     about 35% speedup displaying RecentChanges!
   * Make RecentChanges use a table and some CSS, should be much more readable.
     No code changes involved.
   * Encode &amp; in diffurl in examples, to conform to pedantic rules.
   * Speed up RecentChanges by another 40% or so with some memoization.
   * Memoize abs2rel, which is still kinda slow, for another 30% speedup
     in time to build the doc wiki.