ikiwiki 2.31 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Revert preservation of input file modification times in output files,
     since this leads to too many problems with web caching, especially with
     inlined pages. Properly solving this would involve tracking every page
     that contributes to a page's content and using the youngest of them all,
     as well as special cases for things like the version plugin, and it's just
     too complex to do.
   * aggregate: Forking a child broke the one state that mattered: Forcing
     the aggregating page to be rebuilt. Fix this.
   * cgi hooks are now run before ikiwiki state is loaded.
   * This allows locking the wiki before loading state, which avoids some
     tricky locking code when saving a web edit.
   * poll: This plugin turns out to have edited pages w/o doing any locking.
     Oops. Convert it from a cgi to a sessioncgi hook, which will work
     much better.
   * recentchanges: Improve handling of links on the very static changes pages
     by thunking to the CGI, which can redirect to the page, or allow it to be
     created if it doesn't exist.
   * recentchanges: Exipre all *.\_change pages, even if the directory
     they're in has changed.
   * aggregate: Lots of changes; aggregation can now run without locking the
     wiki, and there is a separate aggregatelock to prevent multiple concurrent
     aggregation runs.
   * monotone changes by Brian May:
     - On commits, replace "mtn sync" bidirectional with "mtn push" single
       direction. No need to pull changes when doing a commit. mtn sync
       is still called in rcs\_update.
     - Support for viewing differences via patches using viewmtn.
   * inline: When previewing, still call will\_render on rss/atom files,
     just avoid actually writing the files. This is necessary because ikiwiki
     saves state after a preview (in case it actually *did* write files),
     and if will\_render isn't called its security checks will get upset
     when the page is saved. Thanks to Edward Betts for his help tracking this
     tricky bug down.
   * inline: Add new `allowrss` and `allowatom` config options. These can be
     used if you want a wiki that doesn't default to generating rss or atom
     feeds, but that does allow them to be turned on for specific blogs.
   * Don't die if running with --getctime and rcs\_getctime throws an error.
     There are several cases (recentchanges files, aggregated files)
     where some source files are not in revision control.
   * Page templates can now use CTIME to show when the page was created.
 * [ Josh Triplett ]
   * README.Debian: Mention user wikilists."""]]