ikiwiki 2.54 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Make it possible to load setup files w/o running them. Code
     needing to do so can call IkiWiki::Setup::load, which will return
     a hash of values.
 * [ Josh Triplett ]
   * ikiwiki-transition: Fix command-line processing so the prefix\_directives
     transition works again.
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * template: Add support for a BASENAME variable.
   * Fixes creation of pages when clicking on WikiLinks starting with "/".
   * Change deb dependencies to list Text::Markdown before markdown, since
     the former, while slower, has a much better html parser that avoids
     numerous bugs.
   * Move yesno function out of inline and into IkiWiki core, not exported.
   * Error handling improvement for preprocess hooks. It's now safe to call
     error() from such hooks; it will cause a nicely formatted error message
     to be inserted into the page.
   * Cut the size of the binary package in half by excluding pages for bugs
     and todo items from the html shipped in it.
   * parentlinks: New plugin, split out of ikiwiki core and enabled by default,
     and several new fields added to allow for advanced styling. (intrigeri)
   * smileys: Some fixes for escaped smileys.
   * smileys: Note that smileys need to be double-escaped for the escaping to
     work. Markdown removes one level of escaping.
   * Add a postscan hook.
   * search: Use postscan hook, avoid updating index when previewing.
   * git: Put web committer name/openid/address in the git author field.
     The committer's email address is not used (because leaking email addresses
     is not liked by many users). Closes: #[451023](http://bugs.debian.org/451023)
   * git: Fix parsing of git logs with no commit messages at all.
   * search: Fixes for title stemming, and use better term for tags.
     (Gabriel McManus)
     (Rebuilding the wiki on upgrade to this version is recommended if you
     use the search plugin.)
 * [ Simon McVittie ]
   * meta, inline: Support guid options, to allow forcing a particular url or
     uuid in feeds.
   * meta: fix title() PageSpec
   * Some footer style changes.
   * aggregate: Add an `aggregateinternal` option, which allows storing
     aggregated data to internal-use files, rather than wiki pages. This
     can save disk space, and be faster.
   * ikiwiki-transition: Add a `aggregateinternal` transition to rename
     the aggregated files."""]]
