News for ikiwiki 1.42:

The `anonok` setting in config files has been removed. To enable anonymous
edits on your wiki, you should now enable the [[anonok_plugin|plugins/anonok]]
instead.

[[Third-party_plugins|plugins/contrib]] that use `pagespec_match()` should be
updated to pass the new third parameter `from` to that function. This is
needed for the new relative glob matching to work.

ikiwiki 1.42 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
   * Fix several more missing translations of Discussion.
   * Fix for missing `backlinks()` in [[pagestats_plugin|plugins/pagestats]].
   * Add `canedit` hook, allowing arbitrary controls over when a page can be
     edited.
   * Move code forcing signing before edit to a new
     [[signinedit_plugin|plugins/signinedit]], and move code checking for
     locked pages into a new [[lockedit_plugin|plugins/lockedit]]. Both are
     enabled by default.
   * Remove the `anonok` config setting. This is now implemented by a new
     [[anonok_plugin|plugins/anonok]]. Anyone with a wiki allowing anonymous
     edits should change their configs to enable this new plugin.
   * Add an [[opendiscussion_plugin|plugins/opendiscussion]] that allows
     anonymous users to edit discussion pages, on a wiki that otherwise
     wouldn't allow anonymous edits.
   * Lots of CGI code reorg and cleanup.
   * Avoid using lots of memory when copying large non-HTML files.
     Yes, you can keep videos in the wiki..
   * Add `feedshow` option to allow reducing the number of items included in
     an RSS or Atom feed.
   * Change based on a patch from Ethan to support relative matching in
     [[PageSpec]]s, by using "`./`".
   * `pagespec_match()` has grown a new third parameter to support this.
   * Add `reverse` option to inline to invert sort orders.
   * Drop the BSD license for the templates and basewiki, and just allow them
     to be used as close to public domain as possible.
   * ViewCVS is now ViewVC (in Debian unstable); update everything to use the
     new name.
   * Fix a security hole that allowed a web user to edit images and other
     non-page-format files in the wiki. To exploit this, the file already had
     to exist in the wiki, and the web user would need to somehow use the web
     based editor to replace it with malicious content.
     (Sorry Josh, this means you can't edit style.css directly anymore,
     although I do appreciate your fixes, actually..)"""]]
