ikiwiki 2.12 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Fix some issues with toggles in preview mode.
   * Fix an aggregate plugin expiry bug. Over time, it's possible for the same
     page name to be expired and reused for several distinct guids. When this
     happened, the expiry code counted each past guid that had used that page
     name as a currently existing page, and thus expired too many pages.
   * Avoid a race in the git rcs\_commit function, by not assuming HEAD will
     stay the same for the duration of the function.
   * Avoid using commands like git-diff and instead use "git diff".
     In some configurations, only the main git command is in the path.
   * Improve the RecentChanges display for git merges, by passing -c instead
     of -m to git-log, and by skipping display of commits that change no
     pages.
   * Don't truncate git commit messages to the first line in RecentChanges,
     show the full message.
   * map: Recent changes caused unnecessary ul's to be inserted for items
     that were all at the same level, fix. Closes: #[449285](http://bugs.debian.org/449285)
 * [ Josh Triplett ]
   * Fix table plugin to not generate an unbalanced tbody tag with header=no
   * Add xmlns attribute on html element in templates; pages can now
     validate.
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * In the example setup file, use mode 6755 for the git post-update hook.
     It needs to be setgid if the master repo is a shared repository, so
     that pushes into the working copy repository happen as the same group,
     avoiding permissions problems.
   * The first git commit legitimately has no parents. Avoid recentchanges
     spewing uninitialised value warnings and debug messages about it.
     Dummying up a parent of 0000000 allows gitweb to work too."""]]