ikiwiki 2.64 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * Avoid uninitialised value when --dumpsetup is used and no srcdir/destdir
     specified.
   * ddate: Stop clobbering timeformat when not enabled.
   * progress: New plugin to generate progress bars (willu)
   * Add allow\_symlinks\_before\_srcdir to config so websetup doesn't eat it.
   * img: Support sizes like 200x. Closes: #[475149](http://bugs.debian.org/475149)
   * goodstuff: Remove otl plugin from the bundle since it needs a significant
     external dependency and is not commonly used. If you use otl, make sure
     you explicitly enable it now.
   * goodstuff: Add more, progress, and table plugins to the bundle.
   * Improve error message if external plugin fails to load. Closes: #[498458](http://bugs.debian.org/498458)
   * Directive documentation broken out of the plugin documentation and into
     pages suitable to be used as an underlay. Thanks to Willu for doing most
     of the tedious work.
   * Move the directive documentation into its own underlay, separate from
     basewiki, since it's sorta large compared to the rest of basewiki.
   * listdirectives: Enable use of the directives underlay.
   * Removed the obsolete blog page from the basewiki. ikiwiki/blog still
     remains, but is now deprecated too.
   * Removed old redirecton pages from basewiki (helponformatting,
     markdown, openid, pagespec, preprocessordirective, subpage, wikilink).
   * inline: Treat rootpage as a link, so that it can refer to a subpage
     without hardcoding the path."""]]