ikiwiki 1.37 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
   * Add mirrorlist plugin.
   * Fixed permissions of some files that were 600 in the tarball. (Did not
     affect the deb).
   * Avoid creating edit links when the cgi url is not known.
   * Avoid displaying discussion links at all, if there's not a discussion
     page, when the cgi url isn't known.
   * Before, svn was used as the RCS by default unless configured otherwise,
     now it defaults to using no RCS unless configured to do so, to avoid some
     suprising behavior when using a setup file and not uncommenting any RCS
     options.
   * Fix some bugs in the commit email sending code.
   * Improve code that ignores files in the underlaydir if the srcdir has a
     file building the same page. Now it will work even if the extensions of
     the source files differ.
   * Initial work on internationalization of the program code. po/ikiwiki.pot
     is available for translation.
   * Export gettext() from IkiWiki module.
   * Don't put discussion links on discussion pages.
   * Allow disabling of plugins included in goodstuff.
   * Add a textile format plugin contributed by mazirian.
   * If a userdir is configured, links to pages in it can be made without
     specifying the path. This allows for easy signing of comments by linking
     to your page in the userdir.
   * Escape slashes in page titles entered in the blog post form.
   * Munge openids of the form somehost.com/user (trial, may revert)."""]]