ikiwiki 2.10 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
   * Tidy ctime debug output for git.
   * French translation update. Closes: #[445923](http://bugs.debian.org/445923)
   * Fix --get-ctime with git, needed to remove srcdir from filename.
   * In the cgi edit path, reload the index file before rendering. A bug
     showed up where a web edit that added a page caused a near-concurrent
     web edit to fail in will\_render. While it would be hard to reproduce this,
     my analysis is that the failing cgi started first, loaded the index file
     (prior to locking) then the other cgi created the new page and rendered
     it, and then the failing cgi choked on the new file when \_it\_ tried to
     render it. Ensuring that the index file is loaded after taking the lock
     will avoid this bug.
   * Fix strange stderr-hiding code in the git module, allow error messages
     to be passed on to stderr. Also fixes a potential bug, since git error
     meesages were treated as if they came from git stdout.
   * Add a "createlink" class attribute to the span for wikilinks pointing
     to not-yet-existing pages. I don't have a useful style defined for that
     though.
   * Rewritten rst plugin by madduck is a python program that communicates with
     ikiwiki via XML RPC. This should be much faster than the old plugin that
     had to fork python for every rst page render. Note that if you use
     the rst plugin, you now need to have the RPC::XML perl module installed.
   * Danish translation from Jonas Smedegaard. Closes: #[446952](http://bugs.debian.org/446952)
   * Support git authors of the form "joey &lt;joey&gt;", which is common when
     importing from a svn repo."""]]