News for ikiwiki 1.44:

    The htmllink() function has changed slightly and plugins that use it may
    need to change how they call it. This function's first three parameters
    are unchanged, but additional options are now passed using named
    parameters. If you used htmllink with more than 3 parameters, you will
    need to change it. The plugin interface version has been increased to 1.02
    to reflect this change.

ikiwiki 1.44 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
   * Patch by Ben to fix validaton of atom feeds by fixing the category tags.
   * Add a openidlogin-bg.gif to wikiicons and have the stylesheet use it for the
     OpenID login form rather than linking to a remote logo, to avoid various
     issues. Since there is not yet a license for the actual OpenID logo, this
     file is currently a blank image. Users who want to can copy
     http://openid.net/login-bg.gif into their wiki.
   * Allow setting NOTAINT=1 when building the wiki to remove taint checking
     flags, which can be useful on some hosting providers.
   * Fix a bug that made links like [[0|foo]] use "foo" as the link text,
     instead of "0".
   * Changed calling convention for httmllink slightly. The first three
     parameters remain the same, but additional options are now passed in using
     named parameters.
   * Change plugin interface version to 1.02 to reflect this change.
   * Add a new anchor option to htmllink. Thanks Ben for the idea.
   * Support anchors in wikilinks.
   * Add a "more" plugin based on one contributed by Ben to allow implementing
     those dreaded "Read more" links in blogs.
   * Don't error out if estcmd fails, just print a warning message. estcmd is
     too fragile to let it kill ikiwiki.
   * Make img plugin not fail immediately if Image::Magick is not available.
     This lets ikiwiki not build depend on perlmagic.
   * Detect old versions of xgettext and avoid using them.
   * perl is broken: print "" || die fails! Work around this insanity.
   * Smarter detection of no-op changes to po files.
   * Elegant patch from Ethan to clean up the display of page names in the
     dropdown when creating a new page.
   * Since the CGI had to drop the wiki lock to avoid deadlocking the
     commit hook, it was possible for one CGI to race another one and "win"
     the commit of both their files. This race has been fixed by adding a new
     commitlock, which when locked by the CGI, disables the commit hook
     (except for commit mails). The CGI then takes care of the updates the
     commit hook would have done.
   * French translation update. Closes: #[411899](http://bugs.debian.org/411899)
   * Patch from HenrikBrixAndersen to fix a broken use of foreach in the
     search plugin.
   * Correct a bug that could lead to infinite looping after signin in some
     circumstances.
   * Patch from Ethan to improve behavior if a page is deleted or moved while
     someone is editing it.
   * Some cleanup of field setting in the failed edit and conflict handling
     code."""]]