ikiwiki 1.43 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
   * Allow plugins to add new types of tests that can be used in PageSpecs.
   * Add a "conditional" plugin, which allows displaying text if a condition
     is true. It is enabled by default so conditional can be used in the
     basewiki.
   * Use conditionals in the template for plugins, so that plugin pages
     say if they're currently enabled or not, and in various other places
     in the wiki.
   * Updated Spanish translation.
   * Make the basewiki be full of symlinks to pages that should be the same
     in the doc wiki. This will allow direct edits to alter the base wiki
     without manual munging.
   * Fix the template, toggle, and conditional plugins to filter text before
     preprocessing it.
   * Fix smiley plugin to support smileys at the very beginning or end of
     the content.
   * Allow multiple tag settings to appear in a single page.
   * Many changes to make ikiwiki very resistant to write failures
     including out of disk space situations. ikiwiki should never leave
     truncated files, and if the error occurs during a web-based file edit,
     the user will be given an opportunity to retry.
     Inspired by the many ways Moin Moin destroys itself when out of disk. :-)
   * Fix syslogging of errors.
   * Patch from Ethan to allow using meta tags to set creation dates of pages.
   * Add a prettydate plugin that formats dates in a more readable fashion.
     (I had to get a pretty date somehow today..)
   * Updated Czech translation.
   * Avoid potential syslog format string issue, although only older versions
     of perl are vulnerable and it is not known to really be exploitable from
     ikiwiki.
   * Add explicit module prereqs to Makefile.PL
   * New domain name for ikiwiki: ikiwiki.info. Update your links."""]]