ikiwiki 2.45 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
   * toc: Add the table of contents at sanitize time, rather than at format
     time. This allows the toc to be displayed when previewing an edit. It also
     avoids headers in the page template from showing up in the toc.
   * Add PREFIX/bin to the hardcoded PATH within ikiwiki.
   * Deal with different paths to perl when removing -T flag.
   * Add missing de.po. Closes: #[471540](http://bugs.debian.org/471540)
   * img: Support a title attribute, will be passed through to html.
     Closes: #[478718](http://bugs.debian.org/478718)
   * anonk: Add anonok\_pagespec configuration setting that can be used to
     allow anonymous users to edit only matching pages. Closes: #[478892](http://bugs.debian.org/478892)
   * Fix ugly display when editing a page that has vanished.
   * srcfile now has an optional second parameter to avoid it throwing an error
     if the source file does not exist.
   * git: Put -- before the filename when calling git rev-list to avoid
     warning message when the file doesn't exist.
   * Add a Bundle::Ikiwiki and Bundle::IkiWiki::Extras to the source for use
     with CPAN to install perl modules.
   * Add a cpan directory containing a CPAN::MyConfig that can ease use of
     CPAN to install in a home directory on shared hosting providers.
   * With these changes, it's pretty easy to install onto nearlyfreespeech.net
     and probably other shared hosting providers like dreamhost. Added
     a [[page|tips/nearlyfreespeech]] documenting the process for nearlyfreespeech."""]]
