ikiwiki 2.7 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Add an editcontent hook.
   * Support for looking in multiple directories for underlay files.
   * Plugins can add new directories to the search path with the add\_underlay
     function.
   * Split out smiley underlay files into a separate underlay, so if the plugin
     isn't used, the wiki isn't bloated with all those files.
   * Allow -cgi -wrapper to be passed on the command line to generate a
     wrapper.
   * Fix some taint issues with generating wrappers using the command line.
   * Don't allow newlines in link text in a wikilink.
   * Tables containing links with a link text were misparsed, because the "|"
     in the wikilink looked like a table field separator. Avoid this ambiguity
     by linkifying the data before parsing it as a table.
   * Turn on allow\_loose\_quotes in the table plugin's Text::CSV object,
     so that links from wikilinks don't confuse the parser.
   * mercurial: Pass --style default to hg log to ensure right format is used.
   * mercurial: Fix rcs\_getctime (thanks, bma)
 * [ Josh Triplett ]
   * Use git-log rather than the shell, git-rev-list, and git-diff-tree.
     Patch by Jamey Sharp &lt;jamey@minilop.net&gt;.
   * Renames from git-diff-tree aren't handled, so don't ask for them.
     Patch by Jamey Sharp
   * Handle operating in sub-trees of a git repository.
     When looking for git commits that affect the wiki, only include changes
     that affect the ikiwiki source directory. If that is not the top-level
     directory in this git repository, strip off the prefix as given by
     `git-rev-parse --show-prefix` from all names reported by git-log.
     Patch by Jamey Sharp
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Correct generation of RFC 3339 format times for atom/rss feeds. Always use
     gmtime for these since a time zone is not specified.
   * Updated Spanish translation from Victor Moral.
   * table: Text::CSV doesn't return decoded unicode (XS module); decode its
     return values.
   * Change git test suite to reflect change in log for initial repo creation
     commit.
   * Add the ikiwiki-update-wikilist command.
   * Exclude external plugin from syntax check since it uses a module that is
     not in the build depends. Closes: #[441171](http://bugs.debian.org/441171)"""]]