ikiwiki 1.34 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
   * Add an openid plugin to support logging in using OpenID.
   * Web commits by OpenID users will record the full OpenID url for the user,
     but in recentchanges, these urls will be converted to a simplified display
     form+link.
   * Modified svn, git, tla backends to recognise such web commits.
   * Move httpauth support to a plugin.
   * Add openidsignup config option.
   * Make the openid plugin support the callbacks from myopenid.com via its
     affiliate program.
   * Add toggle plugin.
   * Add a poll plugin.
   * Add quick mode for archive page generation.
   * Introduce the goodstuff bundle. This is a kind of plugin, that just enables
     many other plugins. It's an easy way to boost ikiwiki from its default,
     basic wiki, to a full-featured wiki, without manually picking the right
     set of plugins. New plugins will be added to goodstuff from time to
     time.
   * Change how post signin actions are propigated through the signin process;
     they're now stored in the session.
   * Add optional "desc" parameter to shortcut definitions.
   * Avoid locking the wiki at all when handling some basic cgi stuff
     (searches, recentchanges).
   * Add "last" parameter to hook function. Very basic ordering, and hopefully
     nothing more spohisticated will be needed.
   * Add formbuilder\_setup and formbuilder hooks.
   * Split out a passwordauth module, that holds all the traditional password
     based authentication etc code. It's enabled by default, but can be disabled
     if you want only openid or some other auth method.
   * Rename ikiwiki.pl so MakeMaker doesn't see it, and install it.
   * Add some code to the build system that tries to determine if the
     lib installation directory is in @INC. If it's not, munge ikiwiki
     to hardcode the path to the lib directory. This should allow installing
     ikiwiki in nonstandard locations, including home directories, by just
     setting PREFIX at build time.
   * Fix nested examples directory in deb.
   * Add a test suite for the mercurial backend, contributed by Emanuele Aina.
   * Add a test suite for the svn backend.
   * Add a test suite for the git backend, from Recai
   * Daemonize before sending RPC pings, since that can take a while
     and/or hang.
   * Daemonize before sending commit mails, as that can also take a long
     time/hang if the mail server is unhappy.
   * Factor out commit mail sending code into new function.
   * Change rcs\_commit, it is now passed the name of the user doing the commit
     and their IP address, and needs to construct its own commit message
     containing them, or do something more appropriate for the given RCS.
   * Add softwaresite example.
   * Mercurial backend improvements, including --get-ctime support. (Emanuele
     Aina)
   * Git backend improvements, including bug fixes and better robustness,
     from Recai."""]]