ikiwiki 2.41 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
 * [ Adeodato Simó ]
   * Preprocessor directives generated by the shortcut plugin accept a `desc`
     parameter that overrides the anchor text provided at shortcut definition
     time. (Closes: #[458126](http://bugs.debian.org/458126))
 * [ martin f. krafft ]
   * The meta plugin now allows for the robots tag to be specified without the
     risk of it being scrubbed.
   * Let meta.openid set X-XRDS-Location header
   * Make makerepo set the Git merge remote.
     branch.master.remote previously used to default to origin, which has
     recently been changed; it now needs to be set explicitly, which this
     patch does. Closes: #[470517](http://bugs.debian.org/470517)
   * meta: Also generate openid2 headers.
   * Handle SimpleXMLRPCDispatcher arg count change in python 2.5
   * Provide XML-RPC proxy abstraction for Python plugins.
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Add recentchangesdiff plugin that adds diffs to the recentchanges feeds.
   * rcs\_diff is a new function that rcs modules should implement.
   * Implemented rcs\_diff for git, svn, and tla (tla version untested).
     Mercurial and monotone still todo.
   * Support Text::Markdown::markdown, which is the spelling used by
     version 1.0.16 of Text::Markdown.
   * Updated Spanish translation from Victor Moral.
   * Fix example exclude regexp. Closes: #[469691](http://bugs.debian.org/469691)
   * Remove locking code in git rcs\_commit. I'm not sure if this was ever
     correct, and it's certianly not correct now, since the wiki is locked
     before rcs\_commit is ever called, and should not be unlocked by
     rcs\_commit either.
   * monotone: Require version 0.38 or greater, and stop using the mtnmergerc
     option. (Brian May)
   * Use forcebaseurl to make page previews be displayed with the html base
     set to the destination page. This avoids need for hacks to munge the urls
     in preview mode, which fixes several bugs.
   * Several destpage fixes in plugins.
   * Use absolute url for feedurl when filling out the feed templates.
     Closes: #[470530](http://bugs.debian.org/470530)
   * Fix expiry of old recentchanges changeset pages.
   * French translation update. Closes: #[471010](http://bugs.debian.org/471010)
   * external: Fix support of XML::RPC::fault.
   * htmltidy: Pass --markup yes, in case tidy's config file disabled it.
   * external: Add getargv and setargv methods to allow access to ikiwiki's
     @ARGV.
   * Correct bug in encoding of %pagestate keys, fixes edittemplate.
   * Detect invalid pagespecs and do not merge them in add\_depends,
     as that can result in a broken merged pagespec that matches nothing.
   * Record new pages in %pagesources temporarily when previewing so that
     things that need to know the page source or type can query it from there.
     Fixes previewing of tables when creating a new page.
   * German translation update. Closes: #[471540](http://bugs.debian.org/471540)
   * Time::Duration is no longer used, remove from docs and recommends.
   * Store userinfo in network byte order for easy portability.
     (Old files will be automatically converted.)
   * Close meta tag for redir properly.
   * smiley: Detect smileys inside pre and code tags, and do not expand.
   * inline: Crazy optimisation to work around slow markdown.
   * Precompile pagespecs, about 10% overall speedup.
   * Changed to a binary index file, written using Storable, for speed.
   * external: Work around XML RPC's lack of support for null by passing
     a special sentinal value.
   * inline: Allow the "feedshow" parameter to take values greater than the
     value for "show".
   * Added a hardlink option in the setup file, useful if the source and
     dest are on the same filesystem and the wiki includes large media files,
     which would normally be copied, wasting time and space."""]]