ikiwiki 1.6 released with these changes:

   * YA utf-8 patch from Recai, this time to fix previewing a page so that
     the text in the input box is re-encoded back to utf-8.
   * -CSD does not affect modules, so readfile() was not using the utf-8 input
     layer, which led to lots of problems; make it force read files as utf-8.
     Closes: #[373203](http://bugs.debian.org/373203)
   * Note that as a consequence, this version of ikiwiki will actually try to
     parse utf8 in source files for the first time, which may expose broken
     utf8 in wiki sources that was hidden before. Most common will be
     perl warnings like "utf8 "\xE9" does not map to Unicode"
   * writefile() likewise needs to use the utf8 output layer.
   * Remove the -CSD from ikiwiki's hashbang since it's useless to have it
     there.
   * Revert some of the decode\_utf8 changes in CGI.pm that seem unnecessary
     given the readfile fix.
   * Add utf-8 testcases for readfile and htmlize.
   * Put back the encode\_utf8 in the input to markdown; it's really not utf-8
     safe.
   * More utf-8 fixes from Recai, partly to things I broke above:
     - The serious problem is that writefile() saves the content in undecoded
       format in CGI, hence all (non-ascii) chars are corrupted permanently.
     - Comment field in edit page is not decoded and all the non-ascii chars in
       this field are corrupted as the result.  We should decode it as we do it
       for the content.
     - Add 'use encoding "utf8"' to CGI.pm to avoid warnings about wide
       character in print.
   * New SVG logo from Recai.