ikiwiki 2.55 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * remove: New plugin that adds the ability to remove pages via the web.
     (Sponsored by The TOVA Company.)
   * rename: New plugin that adds the ability to rename pages via the web.
     (Sponsored by The TOVA Company.) (This one's for you, Kyle.)
   * All rcs backends need to implement rcs\_remove, rcs\_commitstaged,
     and rcs\_rename. (Done for svn, git).
   * This version adds renamepage hooks, which can be used to modify page content,
     including links, during renames.
   * prefix\_directives enabled in doc wiki, all preprocessor directives
     converted. (Simon McVittie)
   * editpage: Don't show attachments link when attachments are disabled.
   * tag: Allow tagbase to be overridden by starting a tag with "./" or "/".
     (Simon McVittie)
   * Really fix bug with links to pages with names containing colons.
     Previous fix mised a few cases.
   * Avoid troublesome abs\_path calls in wrapper setup.
   * Add allow\_symlinks\_before\_srcdir config setting that can be used to avoid
     a security check that is a good safe default, but problimatic overkill in
     some situations.
   * Don't allow uploading an attachment with the same name as an existing
     page, to avoid confusion.
   * Split out error messages from editpage.tmpl into several separate
     templates.
   * attachment: Do not escape \_ when determining attachment filenames.
   * Rebuild pages that change their type. (Gabriel McManus)
   * monotone: Add support for rename, delete, and also diff. (William Uther)
   * toggle: Fix incompatability between javascript and webkit.
   * bzr: Add support for rename and delete. (Jelmer Vernooij)
   * attachment: Use relative paths when inserting links.
   * toggle: Fix for when html got tidied. Closes: #[492529](http://bugs.debian.org/492529) (Enrico Zini)
   * cutpaste: New plugin by Enrico Zini"""]]