News for ikiwiki 1.50:

   Permalinks and guids in rss and atom feeds for wikis using the usedirs
   options will change in this release. If you have already enabled usedirs,
   you may need to take steps to avoid flooding aggregators.

ikiwiki 1.50 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
 * [ Josh Triplett ]
   * Add a graphviz plugin.
   * Suggests: graphviz
   * Enhance helponformatting and related documentation to supply more
     information about available preprocessor directives.
   * Add myself as a co-maintainer, with Joey's approval.
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Add support for PROFILE=1 to the Makefile, this turns on profiling of the
     wiki build using Devel::Profiler (Dprof can't handle ikiwiki).
   * Add a new %destsources hash, which maps between a destination file and
     the source page used to create it, ie it's the reverse of %renderedfiles.
   * Use %destsources in htmllink and urlto for 20-50% speedup. Thanks
     Josh Triplett for the idea.
   * Optimise displaytime, trimming maybe 6% off the build time.
 * [ Josh Triplett ]
   * Conflicts/Replaces/Provides the unofficial ikiwiki-plugin-table
     package, because ikiwiki now provides the table plugin, and thus has
     a file overlap with ikiwiki-plugin-table.
   * Add libtext-csv-perl to Suggests, for the table plugin.
   * Add libdigest-sha1-perl to Suggests, for sparkline and graphviz.
   * Add libtext-typography-perl to Suggests for the typography plugin.
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Add postformtext parameter to inline.
   * Internal version number and installdir substitutions were lost, fix.
   * Apply patch from Ethan to improve an error message that should never
     happen.
   * Patch from Tuomov to link to the directory in feeds when usedirs is in
     effect. Note that this changes permalinks, so if you are already using
     usedirs you'll have to deal with that on upgrade to this version.
   * Add feedshow parameter to inline, which can be useful for eg, removing
     old posts from feeds when permalinks change.
   * Add .dpkg-tmp to prune regexp, so that if ikiwiki is run right as it's
     being upgraded by dpkg it will ignore dpkg temp files in the basewiki."""]]