ikiwiki 2.51 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * Improve toplevel parentlink to link directly to index.html when usedirs is
     disabled.
   * map: Add a "show" parameter. "show=title" can be used to display page
     titles, rather than the default page name. Based on a patch from
     Jaldhar H. Vyas, Closes: #[484510](http://bugs.debian.org/484510)
   * hnb: New plugin, contributed by Axel Beckert.
   * meta: Store "description" in pagestate for use by other plugins.
   * map: Support show=description.
   * textile: The Text::Textile perl module has some regexps that fail if
     input is flagged as utf-8, but contains invalid characters such as 0x92.
     To prevent it from crashing, re-encode the content before calling it,
     which will ensure that it's really utf-8.
   * Version the suggests of xapian-omega to a version known to be new enough
     to work with ikiwiki. Reportedly, version 0.9.9 is too old to work.
     Closes: #[486592](http://bugs.debian.org/486592)
   * creole: New plugin from Bernd Zeimetz. Closes: #[486930](http://bugs.debian.org/486930)
   * aggregate: Add template parameter.
   * Add support for the universal edit button &lt;http://universaleditbutton.org/&gt;
     (To get this on all pages of an exiting wiki, rebuild the wiki.)
   * txt: New plugin, contributed by Gabriel McManus.
   * smiley: Generate links relative to the destpage. (Fixes a reversion from
     2.41.)
   * toc: Revert change in 2.45 that made it run at sanitize time. That broke
     use of toc in a sidebar.
   * Call format hooks when generating page previews, thus fixing toc display
     there, as well as fixing inlins to again display in page previews, since
     it's started using format hooks. This also allows several other things,
     like embed, that use format hooks, to work during page preview time.
   * Format hooks should not rely on getting an entire html document, as they
     will only get the body during page preview.
   * toggle: Deal with preview mode when adding javascript."""]]