News for ikiwiki 1.51:

   Some wikis need to be rebuilt on upgrade to this version, due to changes to
   page layout and the style sheet. If you listed your wiki in
   /etc/ikiwiki/wikilist this will be done automatically when the Debian
   package is upgraded. Or use ikiwiki-mass-rebuild to force a rebuild.

ikiwiki 1.51 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Support setting svnpath to "" for wikis that are rooted at the top of
     their svn repositories, with no trunk directory.
   * Minor template improvements by Alessandro.
   * In mercurial backend, untaint ipaddr when using it as the user for the
     commit. Thanks, Alexander Wirt. Closes: #[420428](http://bugs.debian.org/420428)
   * Fix aggregator to not warn when a feed contains no body content at all.
   * Work around bug #420636 by, if XML::Parser crashes, running the feed
     content though Encode::decode\_utf8.
 * [ Josh Triplett ]
   * Change basewiki CSS to not put a border around images used as links.
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Move the footer div to enclose tags and links too.
   * More style sheet updates, remove the hack that used the tags div to create
     the footer border.
   * Due to template changes and style sheet changes that depend on them,
     wiki rebuilds are recommended on upgrade to this version.
   * Avoid .svn directories when installing from svn checkout.
   * Fix sending of commit mails when new pages are added via the web.
   * Add user(name) to the PageSpec for commit subscriptions.
   * pagespec\_match() has changed to take named parameters, to better allow
     for extended pagespecs. The old calling convention will still work for
     back-compat for now.
   * The calling convention for functions in the IkiWiki::PageSpec namespace
     has changed so they are passed named parameters.
   * Plugin interface version increased to 2.00 since I don't anticipate any
     more interface changes before 2.0.
   * Updated Gujarati translation from Kartik Mistry. Closes: #[421198](http://bugs.debian.org/421198)
   * Make pagespec\_match return an object that can be stringified to tell
     the reason why the match failed or succeeded.
   * Add testpagespec plugin, which might be useful to see why a pagespec isn't
     working as desired.
 * [ Josh Triplett ]
   * Fix bestlink to use pagecase for pages in userdir, to support pages
     with non-lowercase filenames.
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Include wikiname in syslogged messages.
   * Updated Polish translation from Pawel Tecza.
   * Updated Czech translation from Miroslav Kure.
   * Updated Spanish translation from Victor Moral.
   * Apply patch from hb that uses the full path to a file when adding a file
     using the mercurial backend. Not 100% sure why it failed w/o the full
     path, but this still passes the test suite, and indeed, is how the test
     suite calls hg add."""]]