News for ikiwiki 2.1:

   Some wikis need to be rebuilt on upgrade to this version, due to changes to
   page templates and the style sheet. If you listed your wiki in
   /etc/ikiwiki/wikilist this will be done automatically when the Debian
   package is upgraded. Or use ikiwiki-mass-rebuild to force a rebuild.

ikiwiki 2.1 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Use div layout for the signin and preferences forms, so that they can be
     styled using the stylesheet, rather than by creating signin and prefs
     templates.
   * Make the openid login form nicely styled.
   * Fix a bug that prevented clearing email or subscriptions.
   * Improve handling of edits of locked pages by users who are not yet signed
     in.
   * Make testpagespec more robust, including checking for missing/bad
     parameters.
   * Add all=no option to conditional, can be used to form conditionals that do
     not need to examine every page in the wiki.
   * Add the needsbuild hook. Plugins can use this to manipulate which files
     ikiwiki builds when refreshing the wiki.
 * [ Josh Triplett ]
   * Add an account-creation password as a simple anti-spam mechanism. If
     set in the wiki setup, passwordauth will require the password in
     order to create an account.
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Updated Czech translation from Miroslav Kure.
   * Apply patch from Pawel to avoid using -L in Makefile as it's not available
     in older finds.
   * Make all templates have a footer div to ease themeing. Required template
     and style sheet updates, and unless you're using customised versions,
     you'll want to rebuild wikis on upgrade to this version to avoid
     inconsistencies.
   * Allow WIKINAME to to used in footers, as an example of something to put
     there.
   * Patch from hb to fix the pagestats plugin, which was broken by a past
     change to the backlinks() function.
   * Fix some bugs in password handling:
     - If the password is empty in preferences, don't clear the existing
       password.
     - Actually check the confirm password field, even if it's left empty.
   * Add a destpage parameter to the filter hook.
   * Fix links to smilies generated by the smiley plugin for inlined pages. The
     old links were often wrong, but often still worked by accident.
   * Add a test ensuring that the basewiki is self-contained and has no broken
     links."""]]