News for ikiwiki 2.60:

Admin preferences are moving from the web interface to the setup file.
There are three new options in the setup file: `locked_pages`, `banned_users`,
and `allowed_attachments`. The admin prefs page can still be used, but
that's deprecated, and the prefs will be hidden if a value is not already
set. If a value is set in the web interface, you're encouraged to move that
setting to your setup file now, since version 3.0 will remove the deprecated
admin prefs web interface.

Also, the layout of the setup file has changed in a significant way in this
release. Old setup files will continue to work, but new features, like the
new websetup interface, require a new format setup file. You can convert
old setup files into the new format by running
`ikiwiki-transition setupformat ikiwiki.setup`

ikiwiki 2.60 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * Starting with this version, "ikiwiki -setup /etc/ikiwiki/auto.setup"
     can be used create a new wiki in seconds.
   * websetup: New plugin providing a setup form on the web.
   * ikiwiki --dumpsetup can generate a nice setup file snapshotting ikiwiki's
     current configuration.
   * The way wrappers are defined in the setup file has changed. Old setup
     files will continue to work, for now.
   * ikiwiki-transition setupformat can be used to convert a setup file to the
     new format.
   * Version control backends promoted to first-class plugins.
   * ikiwiki-update-wikilist: Add -r switch to remove. Default behavior is now
     always to add.
   * Start moving admin preferences from the web interface to the setup file.
   * Add getsetup hook, all plugins should use it to record information about
     themselves and any fields they add to %config
   * Large amounts of internal config data reorg.
   * ikiwiki-makerepo: Bail if both srcdir and repository are not specified.
     Closes: #[493628](http://bugs.debian.org/493628)
   * Clarify some wording in the setup documentation that could maybe lead
     users to putting paths with "~/" in the setup file, which doesn't work.
     Closes: #[493835](http://bugs.debian.org/493835)
   * autoindex: Ignore internal pages, and take underlay directories into
     account. Also, avoid making index pages for directories that contain
     no files.
   * external: Fix support for hooks called in an array context.
   * Options set in the setup file are now immediatly loaded by ikiwiki -setup.
     This allows later switches to override them. Previously, setup file
     options overrode most command line options.
   * Added a small icon to the search input box.
 * [ Josh Triplett ]
   * Add Suggests on texlive and texlive-science for the teximg plugin
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * inline: Ignore parent dirs when sorting pages by title.
   * rename: Support changing page extensions. (willu)
   * Danish update. Closes: #[494632](http://bugs.debian.org/494632)"""]]
