ikiwiki 1.27 released with these changes:

   * Work on firming up the plugin interface:
     - Plugins should not need to load IkiWiki::Render to get commonly
       used functions, so moved some functions from there to IkiWiki.
     - Picked out the set of functions and variables that most plugins
       use, documented them, and made IkiWiki export them by default,
       like a proper perl module should.
     - Use the other functions at your own risk.
     - This is not quite complete, I still have to decide whether to
       export some other things.
   * Changed all plugins included in ikiwiki to not use "IkiWiki::" when
     referring to stuff now exported by the IkiWiki module.
   * Add a module version number to IkiWiki, so you can "use IkiWiki '1.00'"
     to declare which version of the interface your plugin needs.
   * Anyone with a third-party ikiwiki plugin is strongly encouraged
     to make like changes to it and avoid use of non-exported symbols from
     "IkiWiki::".
   * Link debian/changelog and debian/news to NEWS and CHANGELOG.
   * Support hyperestradier version 1.4.2, which adds a new required phraseform
     setting.
   * If an inlined page has a permalink, link the page title to that.
   * Patch from Recai to use utf8 when reading the setup file, so that
     utf8 wikinames from there will be used properly.
   * Patch from Recai to kill utf-8 on the wiki name when generating the
     session cookie.
   * Change ddate plugin to use the DateTime::Calendar::Discordian perl module.
   * Fix a baseurl problem in hyperestradier search results.
   * Add a stub local.css to avoid problems with 404's.
   * Patch from Recai to fix a wide character warning from the search plugin
     during setup if the wikiname contains utf8.
   * Yet another fix for those poor case-insensative OS X users.
   * pagetemplate hooks are now also called when generating cgi pages.
   * Add a favicon plugin, which simply adds a link tag for an icon to each
     page (and cgis).
   * Patch from James Westby to deal with the case where you're editing a
     new page, hit cancel, and need to be redirected to somewhere sane.
   * Various documentation improvements by various wiki users.
   * Support Text::Markdown from CPAN, which has a different interface from
     the original markdown or the one in Debian.
   * Version the libcgi-session-perl dependency, some features that need
     the new version are used in some cases (sslcookie).
   * Numerous tla fixes from Clint.
   * Updated ikiwiki.svgz from Recai, includes an icon and is used to generate
     a multi-resolution favicon.ico.
   * README.Debian: typo Closes: #[388110](http://bugs.debian.org/388110)
   * chomp trailing newline at the end of templates read in by the template
     plugin, to allow use of the template preprocessor directive in
     whitespace-sensative situations. Closes: #[387073](http://bugs.debian.org/387073)
   * Patch from James Westby to make the location of the estseek.cgi script
     configurable.
   * Add typography (SmartyPants) plugin by Recai.
   * Add --render mode, which can be used to preview an edit at the command
     line by test rendering a single page.
   * Add a googlecalendar plugin. A bit special-purpose, but it shows
     one way to to deal with user-supplied content that could cause XSS
     issues w/o the htmlscrubber, and won't survive the scrubber.