ikiwiki 2.66 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * recentchanges: Fix redirects to non-page files.
   * aggregate: Avoid uninitialized value warnings for pages with no recorded
     ctime.
   * attachment: Add admin() pagespec to test if the uploading user is a wiki
     admin.
   * git: Fix handling of utf-8 filenames in recentchanges.
   * tag: Make edit link for new tags ensure that the tags are created
     inside tagbase, when it's set.
   * template: Make edit link for new templates ensure the page is located
     under toplevel templates directory.
   * htmlscrubber: Add a config setting that can be used to disable the
     scrubber acting on a set of pages.
   * Expand usage message and add --help. Closes: #[500344](http://bugs.debian.org/500344)
   * Beautify urls used in various places. (smcv)
   * Export pagetitle, titlepage, linkpage.
   * htmltidy: Avoid returning undef if tidy fails. Also avoid returning the
     untidied content if tidy crashes. In either case, it seems best to tidy
     the content to nothing.
   * htmltidy: Avoid spewing tidy errors to stderr.
   * Reorganize index file, add a format version field. Upgrades to the new
     index format should be transparent.
   * Add %wikistate, which is like %pagestate except not specific to a given
     page, and is preserved across rebuilds.
   * editpage: Be more aggressive (and less buggy) about cleaning up
     temporary files rendered during page preview.
   * Add an indexpages option, which causes foo/index.mdwn to be the source
     for page foo when foo.mdwn doesn't exist. Also, when it's enabled,
     creating a new page will save it to foo/index.mdwn by default.
     Closes: #[474611](http://bugs.debian.org/474611)
     (Sponsored by The TOVA Company.)
   * httpauth: Document that ikiwiki.cgi has to be in a directory subject to
     authentication. Closes: #[500524](http://bugs.debian.org/500524)
   * inline: Fix handling of rootpage that doesn't exist.
   * attachment: Support adding attachments to pages even as they are being
     created.
   * remove, rename: Allow acting on attachments as a page is being created.
   * Updated French translation. Closes: #[500929](http://bugs.debian.org/500929)"""]]