Version 1.22 of ikiwiki is released. Some important news items for this
release:

Due to some changes in the CSS, wikis should be rebuilt on upgrade to this
version. If you listed your wiki in /etc/ikiwiki/wikilist this will be done
automatically when the Debian package is upgraded. Or use ikiiki-mass-rebuild
to force a rebuild.

If you have modified versions of ikiwiki's html templates, you will need
to update your templates to link to the stylesheet file using
"<TMPL_VAR BASEURL>style.css" instead of the old method which used
STYLEURL.

There have also been some changes to the plugin interface:
Any plugins that use santize, htmlize, or format hooks will need to be
updated for this version of ikiwiki since these hooks have been changed
to use named parameters.

Here's the full list of changes:

   * Change how the stylesheet url is determined in the templates: Remove
     STYLEURL and add BASEURL to all templates (some already had it). This
     new more general variable can be used to link to other things (eg, images)
     from the template, as well as stylesheets.
   * Fix a bug introduced last version to do with nested inlines.
   * Allow preprocessor directives to span multiple lines, both to make
     long ones with lots of values easier to write, and to allow for ones with
     multi-line quoted values.
   * Allow preprocessor directives to contain python-like triple-quoted
     text blocks, for easy nesting of quotes inside.
   * Add a template plugin.
   * Make pagespec merge code smarter about merging duplicate pagespecs.
   * Patch from Jordà Polo to make Setup::Standard support hashes in config
     files.
   * Change order of linkify and preprocess; first preprocess and then linkify.
     This allows passing a wikilink inside a parameter to a preprocessor
     directive without it being expanded to html, and leaking out of the
     parameter, which had required some non-obvious use of triple-quoting
     to avoid. Note that any preprocessor plugins that output something
     that looks like a wikilink will now have it treated as such; AFAIK
     this doesn't change any behavior though except for the template plugin.
   * Enable preprocessor directives when previewing an edit.
   * Make all pages pull in a local.css style sheet, if present. This won't
     be included in ikiwiki, but can be created to make local styling changes
     w/o needing to merge in every new change to the distributed style.css.
   * Use DESTDIR and not PREFIX to specify installation prefix for packaging.
   * Support running "perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=foo" to build ikiwiki to run
     from a different directory.
   * Generalised preprocesser loop protection code.
   * Patch from James Westby to allow a description to be set for rss feeds.
   * Patch from James Westby to add a template for the search form.
   * Added a ddate plugin.
   * Patch from James Westby to add a --sslcookie switch, which forces
     cookies to only be sent over ssl connections to avoid interception.
   * Fix preferences page on anonok wikis; still need to sign in to get
     to the preferences page.
   * Add toc (table of contents) plugin.
   * Change htmlize, format, and sanitize hooks to use named parameters.
   * Patch from James Westby to add an actions option to inline; this
     adds Edit and Discussion links at the end of blog entries.
   * Due to some css changes, you'll want to rebuild your wiki on upgrade
     to this version. Will be handled automatically by the deb.
