ikiwiki 1.13 is released.

_Upgrade notes:_

The GlobList format which was used for specifiying sets of pages, has been
replaced with a new, more expressive PageSpec format. While GlobLists will
continue to work, that format is deprecated, and you are encouraged to use
PageSpecs from now on, and also to change any GlobLists in your wiki to
PageSpecs. See the new [[PageSpec]] page for details.

You will need to rebuild your wiki when upgrading to this version. If you
listed your wiki in /etc/ikiwiki/wikilist this will be done automatically
when the Debian package is upgraded. Or use ikiiki-mass-rebuild to force a
rebuild.

_Changes:_

   * ikiwiki can now download and aggregate feeds with its new aggregate
     plugin, so it's possible to implement a Planet using ikiwiki!
   * Add a run\_hooks function for the common task of running all hooks of a
     given type.
   * Add a savestate hook.
   * Don't put blog post forms on pages if there's no cgiurl set.
   * --setup --refresh no longer rebuilds wrappers. Use --setup --refresh
     --wrappers to do that.
   * Add %IkiWiki::forcerebuild to provide a way for plugins like aggregate
     to update pages that haven't changed on disk.
   * Change meta tags to use html entity-escaped text for values, so that
     quotes and such can be represented in title tags.
   * Depend and build-depend on HTML::Parser for HTML::Entities which is used
     for the above.
   * Make --rebuild also cause --aggregate to re-download and write aggregated
     pages.
   * Avoid outputting duplicate meta info.
   * Include title metadata on aggregated posts for capitalised and un-munged
     titles.
   * Title metadata of inlined pages now shows up in blogs and rss feeds.
   * Fix issue with unicode filenames and updating the hyper estradier search
     index. (Aka Please Please Please, let that be the last one.)
   * Patch from Roland Mas to support an rss=no parameter to inline directives.
     Closes: #[380743](http://bugs.debian.org/380743)
   * Renamed GlobLists to PageSpecs.
   * PageSpecs can now include nested parens, "and", and "or". This remains
     backwards compatible to the old GlobList format. It's implemented by
     treating the GlobList as a very limited microlanguage that is transformed
     to perl code that does the matching.
   * The old GlobList format is deprecated, and I encourage users to switch to
     using the new PageSpec format. Compatability with the old format will be
     removed at some point, possibly by 2.0.
   * Wiki rebuild needed on upgrade to this version due to PageSpec change.
   * Add support for creation\_month and creation\_year to PageSpec.
     Closes: #[380680](http://bugs.debian.org/380680)
   * Changes to index file encoding.
