News for ikiwiki 2.20:

   The template plugin has begun to htmlize the variables passed to templates.
   This is normally what you want, but to get the old behavior and get at the
   raw value, you can use `<TMPL_VAR raw_variable>` in a template.

ikiwiki 2.20 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
   * inline: Add copyright/license info on a per-post basis to atom
     feeds if available. (rss doesn't allow such info on a per-post basis)
   * Also include overall copyright/license and author info in atom feeds if
     available.
   * meta: Allow copyright/license metadata to contain arbitrary markup.
   * Call preprocessor hooks in void context during the scan pass. This allows
     the hook to determine if it's just scanning, and avoid expensive
     operations.
   * img: Detect scan mode and avoid generating and writing the image file
     during it, for a 2x speedup.
   * meta: Run in scan mode again (more intelligently) and re-add support for
     meta link.
   * Fix support for the case where metadata appears after an inline directive
     that needs to use it. This was broken in version 2.16.
   * template: Remove bogus htmlize pass added in 2.16.
   * template: Htmlize template variables, but also provide a raw version
     via `<TMPL_VAR raw_variable>`.
   * When htmlizing text, if the input is a single line with no newline,
     and the htmlizer (such as markdown and textile) generates a html
     paragraph, remove it. This allows removing several hacks from other
     plugins that htmlize fragements of pages.
   * In preferences, allow the subscriptions and email fields to be cleared.
   * teximg: Fix to support the same formula on multiple pages."""]]
