News for ikiwiki 2.9:

   Since ikiwiki 2.0 was released, some limitiations have been added to what
   ikiwiki considers a WikiLink. In short, if there are any spaces in between
   the brackets, ikiwiki no longer considers it to be a WikiLink. If your wiki
   contains things meant to be WikiLinks that contain spaces, you will need to
   fix them, by replacing the spaces with underscores.
   WikiLink have always been documented to not contain spaces, but bugs in
   ikiwiki made it treat some text with spaces as WikiLinks. Most of these
   bugs were fixed in version 2.2, and a final bug was fixed in this 2.9
   release. These fixes are necessary to avoid ambiguity between
   WikiLinks and PreProcessorDirectives. Apologies for any inconvenience
   these bugs (and their fixes) may have caused.

ikiwiki 2.9 released with [[toggle text="these changes"]]
[[toggleable text="""
   * Fix copyright and licence styling.
   * tag: Add taglink preprocessor directive, supporting visible tag links.
     Closes: #[443344](http://bugs.debian.org/443344)
   * map: Fully specify paths to links to avoid issues when the bestlink
     didn't point to the correct page.
   * map: Render pages on the way to subpages whose parent pages
     are not included in the map. Include special styling for such pages.
   * map: Remove common prefixes and don't over-indent.
   * Add class option to htmllink().
   * img: Allow link=somepage to cause the image to link to a given page.
     Slight overriding of link, as link=no is still used to disable the linking
     entirely. Unless you have a page named "no"..
   * Save index after previewing page edit, since even previewing can create
     files in some situations, and this is appropriate in some cases, such as
     the teximg plugin's error log file.
     Such files will be automatically cleaned up at an appopriate later time.
   * Don't allow whitespace in link text in a wikilink. This was still
     allowed by the regexp in one case though not documented to work, and
     was ambiguous with preprocessor directives.
   * camelcase: Tighten regexp to avoid false positives. WikiWords are only
     linkified now if they are preceeded by whitespace."""]]