News for ikiwiki 2.62:

   TexImg standard preamble changed
   The teximg plugin now has a configurable LaTeX preamble.
   As part of this change the `mchem` LaTeX package has been removed from
   the default LaTeX preamble as it wasn't included in many TeX installations.
   The previous behaviour can be restored by adding the following to your
   ikiwiki setup:
         teximg\_prefix =&gt; '\documentclass{scrartcl}
                 \usepackage[version=3]{mhchem}
                 \usepackage{amsmath}
                 \usepackage{amsfonts}
                 \usepackage{amssymb}
                 \pagestyle{empty}
                 \begin{document}',
   In addition, the rendering mechanism has been changed to use `dvipng` by
   default, if available.

ikiwiki 2.62 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * Avoid using cp -a (again). (HenrikBrixAndersen)
   * Avoid using hostname -f for portability to eg, OS X, use Net::Domain
     instead, and prompt if it fails.
   * Fix bug in wikiname sanitisation in the setup automator.
   * ikiwiki-makerepo: Added support for monotone. (Thomas Keller)
   * map: The fix for #449285 was buggy and broke display of parents in certian
     circumstances.
   * teximg: The prefix is configurable, and has changed to not include the
     nonstandard mhchem by default. (willu)
   * teximg: dvipng is used if available to render images. Its output is
     antialiased and better than dvips. If not available, the old dvips+convert
     chain will be used. (willu)
   * Drop suggests on texlive-science, add suggests on dvipng.
   * listdirectives: New plugin. (willu)
   * filecheck: New plugin factoring out the PageSpec additions that were
     originally part of the attachment plugin.
   * edittemplate: Don't wipe out edits on preview.
   * color: New plugin from ptecza.
   * autoindex: Avoid re-adding previously deleted (or renamed) pages."""]]