ikiwiki 2.68 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * Add support for checking pushes from untrusted git committers. This can be
     used to set up anonymous git pushes, and other similar things.
   * format: New plugin, allows embedding differently formatted text inside a
     page (ie, otl inside a mdwn page, or syntax highlighted code inside a
     page).
   * relativedate: New javascript-alicious plugin that makes all dates display
     relative, in a very nice way, if I say so myself.
   * Optimise the no-op post-commit hook, to speed up web edits by a fraction
     of a second.
   * git: Allow [[sha1\_commit]] to be used in the diffurl, to support cgit.
   * shortcut: Fix display of shortcuts while previewing.
   * Plugins that used to override displaytime should instead override
     formattime. displaytime will call that, and may wrap markup around the
     formatted time.
   * Add an underlay for javascript, and add ikiwiki.js containing some utility
     code.
   * toggle: Stop embedding the full toggle code on each page using it, and
     move it to toggle.js in the javascript underlay.
   * recentchanges: Make feed links point back to anchors on the recentchanges
     page. (JasonBlevins)
   * Fix issue with utf-8 in wikiname breaking session cookies, by
     entity-encoding the wikiname in the session cookie.
   * Use the pure perl Data::Dumper when generating setup files to ensure that
     utf-8 characters are written out as such, and not as the encoded perl
     strings the C Data::Dumper produces.
   * inline: Only the last feed link was put on the page, fix this to include
     all feed links. So rss will be included along with atom, and pages with
     multiple feeds will get links added for all feeds.
   * tag: When tagpage is set, force the links created by tagging to point at
     the toplevel tagpage, and not closer subpages. The html links already went
     there, but internally the links were not recorded as absolute, which could
     cause confusing backlinks etc.
   * Add an inject function, that can be used by plugins that want to
     replace one of ikiwiki's functions with their own version.
     (This is a scary thing that grubs through the symbol table, and replaces
     all exported occurances of a function with the injected version.)
   * external: RPC functions can be injected to replace exported functions.
   * Updated French translation. Closes: #[502694](http://bugs.debian.org/502694)
   * Updated Spanish translation from the ever vigilant Victor Moral.
   * Updated Danish translation from Jonas Smedegaard. Closes: #[503117](http://bugs.debian.org/503117)
   * Preserve syslog setting when doing `ikiwiki -setup foo -dumpsetup bar`
   * Several fixes to --render mode."""]]