Well, that's an one workaround for (some versions of) markdown's
lack of tables..

Interesting that you chose to use CSV format. Seems there are advantages
(standardisation) and disadvantages (limited to simple tables).

--[[Joey]]

# Patch for new header options

I have written a small patch for this plugin to enable the first column as a header instead of just the first row or no header.

In my version, there is three options for the header field :

+ **no**: no header;
+ **col**: the first column as header;
+ **row**: the first row as header (for compatibility reason, **yes** is an alternate value for this option). 

Here is the links to the patch and to a patched version of the plugin :

+ [table.pm.patch](http://alexandre.dupas.free.fr/code/ikiwiki/table.pm.patch)
+ [table.pm](http://alexandre.dupas.free.fr/code/ikiwiki/table.pm)

I hope this might be intresting for some ikiwiki user's.

--[[AlexandreDupas]]

> Thanks for the patch, I've merged it in.
> (Just FYI, in future, I recommend using a unified diff. Also, not
> renaming variables that don't really need to be renamed makes your patch
> easier to apply.) --[[Joey]]

---

# Horizontal cell alignment

Do you know any easy method of horizontal cell alignment? I know I can set `class`
attribute for the table, but how to set different `class` for different cells?

[DokuWiki](http://www.dokuwiki.org/) has a nice horizontal alignment solution.
Suppose that we have `|foo|` cell. If I want to align the cell to left,
then I should type `|foo |`. If I want to do right alignment, then I type `| foo|`.
For centering cell content I need to type `| foo |`. Please note that I used
only one space for all examples, but in DokuWiki I can use many spaces.

Do you like it? Can you implement the same in Ikiwiki? :) --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

> Multimarkdown has [table support](http://fletcherpenney.net/multimarkdown/users_guide/multimarkdown_syntax_guide/#tables)
> that includes alignment. (Using colons to control it.) So you can turn on
> `multimarkdown` in setup to use that.
> 
> I'd not mind if someone adds alignment to this plugin. Although the
> universe of possible table formatting stuff is nearly endless, and at
> some point it becomes clearer and simpler to just write the table in
> html.. --[[Joey]]

>> Thanks a lot for the info about Multimarkdown! It seems very interesting.

>> I'll look at that plugin and try to add that feature, if it's not
>> too hard.

>> I know that people have many ideas how to format their tables
>> and it's not easy to create universal tool. Of course `table` plugin
>> was written rather for simple usage. However cell alignment is very
>> helpful feature, so I think the plugin should be able to do it.
>> --[[Paweł|ptecza]]
